My name is Richie Sater, I'm the CEO of 4Thought Technologies. I was one of this year's nominees for EY Entrepreneur of the Year, and I'm also a Principal Investigator for the National Science Foundation.  
I should probably clarify what those are.  EY Entrepreneur of the Year is a big award for startups in the States - Jeff Bezos was nominated for Amazon in 97, Michael Dell was nominated in the 80's, Larry and Sergey won in 2003, Reid Hoffman who did linkedIn 2011 - it tends to be a good signal in the startup world to be nominated.  And Principal Investigator for the National Science Foundation just means the US Government gave me a grant to build my technology.  I'm one of the few PI's who don't have a PHD.
But before all of this stuff, I was a little hacker kid.  I wrote a patent at 19 and that sent me down this tech path but I also  went to college and got a CPA which is the highest level accounting certification.  So I was a CPA and  a software developer which is a VERY weird venn diagram to be in the middle of.   So to make a long story short a partner at EY found out about me and they took me on to this task force they called TTT at EY which were a bunch of CPA Developers.  And I at 23 got to work on major transformation projects with clients like BlackRock, BlackStone, Goldman, I worked directly with Brian Armstrong at Coinbase, I worked with the Winklevoss twins if you saw the facebook movie.  I had some really great exposure to business and building and customer funded development.  Eventually that led to me wanting to build something.   
So I left EY in 2021 to start 4Thought, which has had significant success.
We've been funded by both Venture Capital and the US National Science Foundation. For three years we used grants and funding to build our core technology and infrastructure - what you're going to see today.  Along the way Tim and I started working together.
In January 2024 we launched an AI product for hedge funds on top of this infrastructure. It's what 18 months later and that front office product now has over 1.8 Billion dollars in Customer AUM.  And now we are in talks with KPMG to do a second product with them which is insane because KPMG is like a 30 billion a year company.  
So that's me.
 
 
The way I normally run these pitch calls is to try to make it like hanging out around the whiteboard doing show and tell.  I usually pull up the tech so you can see it, I have slides but I jump around a lot I try to make it as interactive and question answer based as possible if that works for you.