4Thought VC Cold Outreach Email Sequence
Email 1: The KPMG Traction Story
Subject: $1.8B AUM + KPMG discussions = AI SAAS momentum Send: Day 1
Hi {{first_name}},
Quick question: What does it take for KPMG to enter advanced discussions about investment and partnership with a 4-year-old AI SAAS?
Answer: Customers managing $1.8B in assets who've automated their trading operations and saved $967K annually using your platform.
That's exactly where 4Thought Technologies sits today. We've built the AI Agent Workforce that lets hedge funds and banks automate complex financial operations without coding—and the numbers speak for themselves:
* $1M+ ARR from enterprise customers
* $1.8B+ Customer AUM (TLW Capital, Kensington Asset Management, Roka Bank)
* KPMG Partnership Discussions underway
* $967K annual savings proven at our flagship customer
Built over 4 years with NSF backing by Bloomberg/JPMorgan/Citi veterans, our KRONOS infrastructure reduces implementation from 12+ months to 2-3 months while cutting costs 70%.
After largely bootstrapped success on the front-office, back-office opportunities have opened up for us that require funding.
Worth a 15-minute conversation about the $22B fintech automation market we're capturing?
Email 2: The Customer Proof Point
Subject: How front-office wins opened back-office doors Send: Day 4 (if no reply to Email 1)
{{first_name}},
Most AI fintechs struggle to prove ROI. We took the opposite approach:
Started with front-office where results are measurable: TLW Capital's CEO: "4Thought expedited the production curve to a degree that would not be attainable unless I hired a full-time development team working 24 hours a day."
Concrete results:
* $967K annual savings
* 120+ hours saved monthly
* $1.8B customer AUM across hedge funds
* $1M+ ARR in Year 1
This success opened back-office opportunities:
* Compliance monitoring automation
* Blockchain/crypto transaction oversight
* KPMG partnership discussions for enterprise back-office expansion
* $22B addressable market (front + back office combined)
The two-phase approach: Prove value in trading, then scale to operations. Now we have both revenue validation AND strategic partnership interest.
Worth a conversation about how this creates a much larger exit scenario?
Email 3: The Competitive Advantage
Subject: 200M to 1.8B in 7 months Send: Day 12 (if no reply to previous emails)
{{first_name}},
While competitors build generic AI tools, we built something different:
KRONOS - A proprietary visual programming language designed specifically for financial operations. 4 years of NSF-funded development by finance veterans from Bloomberg, JPMorgan, and Citi.
The difference is measurable:
* Traditional dev teams: 12+ months implementation
* 4Thought: 2-3 months (70% cost reduction)
* Customer AUM: $1.8B and growing
* ARR: $1M+ with proven $967K annual savings
Results like these is why we are landing more customers and have grown our total customer AUM from 200M to over 1.8B this year.  
They are also why KPMG entered partnership discussions.
We're raising to scale this proven model. Given {{firm_name}}'s focus on {{investment_focus}}, this might align with your thesis.
15 minutes to explore?
Email 4: The Final Ask
Subject: Last call - 4Thought Series A closing Send: Day 16 (final email)
{{first_name}},
This is my final outreach about 4Thought's Series A.
The numbers that caught KPMG's attention:
* $1.8B Customer AUM
* $1M+ ARR
* $967K annual customer savings
* 4-year NSF-backed development
We're closing this round to scale our AI Agent Workforce into new back-office opportunities. The market we are going after is $22B and growing.
If financial AI automation aligns with {{firm_name}}'s investment focus, I'm happy to send our deck.
Otherwise, best of luck with your current deals.
Richie Sater CEO, 4Thought Technologies 530 Fifth Avenue, Floor 9, NYC richie@4thoughtglobal.com
________________


Clay Personalization Variables Needed:
* {{first_name}} - Prospect's first name
* {{firm_name}} - VC firm name
* {{investment_focus}} - Firm's investment thesis/focus areas (fintech, AI, B2B, etc.)
Timing:
* Email 1: Day 1
* Email 2: Day 4 (if no reply)
* Email 3: Day 8 (if no reply)
* Email 4: Day 12 (if no reply)
* Email 5: Day 16 (final)
Key Metrics to Emphasize:
* $1.8B Customer AUM
* $1M+ ARR
* $967K annual customer savings
* KPMG partnership discussions
* 4-year NSF development backing
* Bloomberg/JPMorgan/Citi team pedigree