Initial Email

Subject:  Seed Ri 4Thought: The AI Agent Workforce for Financial Automation

Hi <%=fname%>,
I’m Richie Sater, CEO of 4Thought Technologies.a U.S.-based company headquartered in New York. We’re building an AI agent workforce that’s transforming how financial institutions automate operations from front-office trading to back-office compliance—faster, more securely, and without needing to code.

About 4Thought
4Thought Technologies helps financial institutions automate complex workflows using our KRONOS® infrastructure and AI agent framework faster, more securely, and at a lower cost than building in-house. Founded by alums of Bloomberg, Citi, EY, JPMorgan, and MIT, and backed by the U.S. National Science Foundation, our platform is already deployed across $1.8B+ AUM and is now expanding from front-office automation to back-office solutions like crypto compliance, tax automation, and risk controls

What Sets 4Thought Apart
* AI Agents Built for Finance – Automate both front- and back-office operations using trusted data and controlled logic.
* No-Code Workflow Builder – Our visual interface allows full transparency and control.
* Domain Expertise – Founded by alums of Bloomberg, EY, JPMorgan, Citi, and MIT.
* NSF-Backed – One of the only fintech companies awarded a grant by the U.S. National Science Foundation.
* Pilot Success – $550K in 2024 pilot revenue; ARR is on track to double in 2025.

Market Opportunity
With a $38B+ TAM across asset management, tax, and crypto markets, our platform is designed to serve financial institutions of all sizes from asset managers and banks to exchanges and government agencies.

Investment Ask
We’re currently raising a $1M Seed Round to accelerate product development, scale our sales efforts, and expand into new use cases. The funds will be strategically allocated with 30% directed toward product development, 35% toward sales and marketing, 28% for general and administrative expenses, and the remaining 7% allocated to capital expenditures.

I’ve attached our Teaser Deck with more details, and would love the opportunity to walk you through how we’re scaling the AI automation layer for financial institutions. Feel free to schedule a time to connect via my Calendly link.


Warm regards,
Richie Sater
CEO, 4Thought Technologies
  




Follow-Up Email
Subject: Scaling AI Automation in Finance – 4Thought’s Seed Round
Hi <%=fname%>,

Just checking in as we continue our conversations around the $1M USD Seed Round at 4Thought Technologies, the AI-powered platform backed by the U.S. National Science Foundation, helping financial institutions automate operations without writing a single line of code.

Our platform is transforming how financial institutions from hedge funds to global banks automate front-office and back-office operations without writing a single line of code. With $1.8B+ AUM already on-platform, 4Thought is backed by the U.S. National Science Foundation and founded by alums of Bloomberg, Citi, EY, JPMorgan, and MIT.

Here’s what’s already in motion:
   * $550K revenue from our first front-office pilot in 2024
   * Current ARR of $600K+, with strong near-term growth expected
   * Expansion to back-office use cases: tax automation, crypto compliance, and risk controls
   * Actively in advanced discussions with KPMG and other major firms
   * TAM exceeding $38B across asset management, crypto, and tax automation

This round will help us accelerate product development, scale our sales team, and expand use cases across global financial institutions. I’ve attached our Teaser Deck with more details

If this aligns with your investment focus, I’d be happy to walk you through the deck or answer any questions. Feel free to reply here or book a time via my Calendly: [Insert Calendly Link]

Warm regards,
Richie Sater
CEO, 4Thought Technologies