NOTE: This document is part of my Elite Entrepreneur Coaching program. 


Imagine unlocking an extra 30+ hours every week to grow your business and enjoy life more. That's exactly what my Elite Entrepreneur Coaching program offers! I provide advanced training in hiring, onboarding, and managing a world-class executive assistant. This isn't just any training; it's a deep, transformative approach to free up your time and supercharge your business growth. Send me a message on Instagram with the world “Elite” to get more information.




Exec Admin - SOP




North Star Principles
Task Cadence
Daily
Weekly
Monthly
Quarterly
Annually
Admin Meeting
Building Your Meeting Agenda
Running Your Admin Meeting
Processing CEO Calendars
CEO’s Perfect Week
Monday to Friday:
Weekends:
Special Considerations:
Creating Calendar Invites
1. Rules for Creating Invites
2. Creating the Perfect Calendar Invite
5. Adding a Day-Of Calendar Entry
6. Time In-Between Meetings
7. Scheduling Drive Time for Out-of-office Events / Appts
8. Notifying Others of CEO’s Schedule
9. Final Checks
Scheduling Speaking and Podcast Days
Reaching out to Podcast Hosts
Requirements for Finding Potential Podcasts/Interviews
Booking Travel
Expectations and Timelines
Steps to Booking Travel
Book Accommodations/Transportation
How to Update Calendar with Flight Information
How to Handle Delays or Cancellations
Final Checks
Processing CEO Inbox
Expectations and Guidelines
CEO’s Inbox Expectations
Assistant’s Inbox Expectations
How to Process the CEO’s Inbox
How to Handle Unique Email Situations
Rule for Keeping Inbox Clean
Rules for Labeling Emails
How to Respond on the CEO’s Behalf
Common Request and Responses
1. When responding to pass on an investment opportunity
2. When responding to pass on an event invitation
3. When passing on a writing or blog collaboration
Final Checks
Coordinating with the House Manager
Purchasing for CEO
CEO Preferences
How to Make Larger Purchases




North Star Principles


1. Protect CEO’s Time: Filter all inbound requests to keep an eye out for those people/places/things that are important and help prioritize them. 


2. Efficiency in Calendar: Be as efficient as possible. Be clear, and committed, and include context.


3. Appreciates the Response: Whether that’s a clear ‘yes’ with the appropriate calendar info for an upcoming meeting or a ‘not at this time’ reply, every email and correspondence should be answered clearly and kindly.


4. Read the Play: Be preemptive. Come prepared and aware of all the moving pieces and how to address them ahead of time. Work from the hour, to day, week, month, quarter. Zoom in / Zoom out.


5. Prioritize Revenue: Order tasks based on what will generate the biggest outcome to support revenue. Profit solves all problems. Making or saving money is priority.


6. Capture Preferences: Questions should only be asked once. Save. Share. Reference for the future.
Key Areas of Responsibilities


Email and Communication Filtering: Regularly check and prioritize incoming communications to ensure the CEO addresses only the most critical items.


Meeting Coordination: Schedule and organize meetings, ensuring they are necessary and productive.


Calendar Management: Maintain a clear and organized calendar, balancing work and personal commitments.


Travel Planning: Arrange all aspects of travel, including itineraries, accommodations, and transportation.


Event Planning: Organize and oversee corporate events, ensuring they align with business goals and the CEO's availability.


Financial Monitoring: Keep an eye on expenses and budgets related to the CEO's activities and office.


Project Tracking: Stay informed about key business projects and deadlines to advise and update the CEO as needed.


Time Management: Continuously look for ways to make the CEO's schedule more efficient.


Networking Coordination: Manage contacts and networking opportunities, aligning them with business priorities.


Personal Appointments: Handle personal appointments to ensure a balanced lifestyle for the CEO.


Confidentiality Management: Safeguard sensitive information, ensuring privacy and security.


Task Prioritization: Regularly assess tasks and priorities to align with the CEO's strategic goals.


Team Communication: Act as a liaison between the CEO and other staff members or departments.


Feedback and Reporting: Gather and relay relevant feedback or reports to the CEO for informed decision-making.


Problem-Solving: Anticipate and address potential issues before they reach the CEO, ensuring smooth operations.


Task Cadence
Daily
This is the daily flow of the CEO’s Admin. 
1. Review CEO’s Calendar for the day ahead
2. Process the CEO’s Inbox
   1. Goal: 0 Inbox by 10 AM EST and again at 5 PM EST
3. Process your Inbox 
   1. Schedule any calls or meetings requested (outside of clients)
   2. Sure up any speaking engagements
4. Create a to-do list for the day, complete by EOD. 
   1. Add to it any ordering
   2. Voxer requests
   3. Slack message request
   4. SMS requests
   5. Processing emails that require specific actions (Like signing legal documents, or customer service requests)
5. Prepare for meeting with CEO
   1. Update your Admin Agenda
6. Research/ book any requested travel
7. Briefly review the CEO’s Calendar for 6-weeks ahead
8. EOD, before signing off: 
   1. Go through your inbox and address all lingering questions, 
   2. Write summaries or notes to emails you’ll work on tomorrow to denote any progress you’ve made, 
   3. Compile your ‘To Do’ list for the following day. 


Weekly
1. Audit the CEO’s Calendar for 6 weeks ahead:
   1. Confirm all calendar invites have been accepted, follow up if not
   2. Review all client programs in the calendar
   3. Confirm that there are weekly meetings with the CEO’s wife to discuss calendar and upcoming events/travel etc 
2. Review the travel schedule, and update accordingly.
3. Review and confirm family commitments
Monthly
1. Review CEO’s travel calendar for 2 month ahead
2. Review suspense report / Exec Report 
   1. Find any missing support 
Quarterly
1. Schedule a separate Family Boardroom Meeting with each of CEO’s kids
2. Schedule a quarterly retreat with CEO and wife
Annually 
1. Semi-Annually, schedule dentist appointment for the CEO. 
Other Odds & Ends Responsibilities
1. Creating an invoice in Stripe 


Admin Meeting


As a new admin, meeting with the CEO will help you become clear on expectations and outcomes. First, you will meet with the CEO every day. After 4-6 weeks, you’ll meet three times a week. After three months, you will meet once a week. 
Building Your Meeting Agenda


Building and maintaining an up-to-date meeting agenda is a vital activity each day. Every meeting agenda should include these 8 parts, in this order:

1. A Title. Outlined like so, “Admin Meeting, [your name] & CEO, [date]” 
2. Meeting Action Items. List the names of all meetings the CEO has had since the last time you spoke. Confirm there is nothing that you need to do for those. 
3. Calendar review. Have the calendar pulled up and open so that the CEO can easily follow along. 
4. Previous Meetings. For each meeting the CEO has had since the last meeting, ask them if there’s any followup or action required.
5. CEO’s Agenda. Ask the CEO if he has any feedback, or anything on his list that he’d like to discuss with you. 
6. Closing the Loop. List any action items that have been resolved or finalized since you last met.
7. Assistant to Review. Present any challenging emails or opportunities that the CEO might be interested in. 
8. Projects. List in order of importance all the projects you are working on that need assistance from the CEO to resolve. Be succinct and offer 3 resolution options for any problem.
9. Questions for CEO. Create a list of questions to help you understand the business and the CEO better. If you have extra time during your meeting, run through as many as possible. 
Running Your Admin Meeting
1. Come prepared. Have all necessary documents, links or items that need to be reviewed, opened and easily accessible. 
2. Begin by sharing your screen so that the CEO can follow along to the meeting agenda and calendar review.
3. Stay succinct, summarize all points as quickly and clearly as possible.
4. Take notes of any action items that need to be taken care of after the meeting. 
5. Ask questions. This is your time to get to know the CEO and ask as many questions as you have.


Processing CEO Calendars
Purpose: To help design the CEO’s calendar so that he knows exactly where he needs to be, with all relevant information required for the meeting, and with no surprises. 


During travel, add any documentation, times, confirmation numbers, etc. so that the CEO can work off of the calendar and have reminders when possible.
CEO’s Perfect Week
Prior to committing anything to the CEO’s calendar, refer to this basic schedule:
Monday to Friday:
Mornings: Reserved for creative work & workouts (ideally, this time is used for only block time, nothing else is to be scheduled during this time)
Lunch: 12:00 - 12:30 pm 
Afternoons:  Ideal time for meetings
Evenings: Family Time
Late evening: This is for an emergency situation, and must be approved by the CEO.  (just like mornings - it’s possible - just not the default plan)
Fridays: 
Weekends:
Saturday/ Sunday: Family day - non-negotiable, nothing gets scheduled for business
Special Considerations: 
* Try to book as many calls during driving time as possible, especially when video is unnecessary.
* Do not schedule anything video related after a workout - unless it’s with the team
* Always book prep for 30 minutes in the morning of a speaking event / Masterclass, to make sure slides are up to par. 
* Schedule multi-day events to show at the top of the calendar and schedule them individually so that it blocks off each day of the calendar so the CEO does not mistaken his availability.


Creating Calendar Invites
1. Rules for Creating Invites
1. Do not schedule morning meetings unless requested by the CEO.
2. If CEO is the one requesting a call schedule in the next 1-3 days
3. If someone else is requesting CEO’s time, schedule in the next 1-2 weeks
4. Default is 20 minute meetings
5. Batch calls together when scheduling, as the CEO doesn’t want any “dead” space in his calendar.
6. Never provide CEO’s personal cell # unless approved or with personal contacts.
7. Always make sure there is an Agenda & the other person’s phone number in the invite. 
2. Creating the Perfect Calendar Invite 


Creating the Invite:
1. Naming a Meeting … 
   1. Sync (general meeting)
   2. Private Coaching 
   3. 1on1
2. Add in start/ end times, in correct time zone
3. Always include the location. 
   1. For phone calls, if the CEO needs to call someone, include the number in the “location” line & have the CEO call the other participant.
   2. For all meetings, include contact information (even with Zoom)
4. In the description write the contact information (phone number) and agenda to help the CEO determine what the event is about.
   1. If there isn’t an agenda, the CEO won’t attend ;) 
Adding Guests: 
* Add the emails for any guests being included in the event and send calendar invitations
Length of Calls:
* *Default time is 20 minutes to keep people on track / focused
* 15 min - typically for someone wanting CEO’s time, and / or someone he doesn’t know or someone just picking his brain / quick question
* 55 min - interviews / podcasts, etc.
* 60 min for masterclass if books were purchased 


Order of Operations for Scheduling: 
# 1 — Health: All workouts take priority over any other block on the calendar
# 2 — Client Commitments: Client sessions should not be moved and never for meetings of a lesser priority, especially Private Coaching calls. 
# 3 — Meetings the CEO Has Asked For: Calls, Podcasts, Intros, Date Night, etc.
# 4 — Team Requests: Use creative time to block out time to move the ball forward on team projects
# 5 —  Meetings for the CEO’s Time That He Hasn’t Asked For: Calls, Podcasts, Intros, etc.
# 6 — Team meetings: Meeting with team members can be adjusted and rescheduled as needed.


Examples of Using Specific Colors for Events:
1. Blueberry - Block time to achieve business, personal or family goals  + personal appointments
2. Red - Client Calls
3. Yellow - Calls / Meetings / Team meeting
   * Ex. Weekly Team Meeting, Call w/ friend or non-client
4. Sage - Travel 
   * Ex. flights, Hotels check-ins, rental car pickups, etc.
5. Peacock - Fitness + Meal Reminders
   * Ex. Crossfit, Breakfast, Lunch
6. Grape - Speaking Engagement / Paid Engagement
7. Basil - Networking Engagement 
   * Ex. Founders lunch / Dinners, Community support


3. Adding a Day-Of Calendar Entry
* Must SMS CEO of any same-day calendar changes 
4. Time In-Between Meetings
* How much of a buffer do you need in between meetings?
5. Scheduling Drive Time for Out-of-office Events / Appts
* When scheduling out-of-office appointments, schedule drive time separate to the event (to and from appointment)
6. Notifying CEO’s Wife of Events
* When CEO’s wife is not attending an event, she still needs to be kept in the loop for travel and things at her house. Add her to the calendar invite and set it as ‘Optional’ next to her invite so she knows it’s a heads up. 
7. Final Checks
* Have you verified each part of the calendar invite: subject, where, date, start and end time,  timezone, CEO’s calendar, colour of event, etc.?
* Have you added a number in the location if the CEO is supposed to call someone?
* Have you included all of the contact details in the description, including a cell # for backup?
* Have you included an agenda to guide the conversation?
* Have you sent out a calendar invitation to the guests?
* Have the guests confirmed?


Checking the Calendar
Purpose: Even with absolute diligence when setting up a calendar invite, phone numbers and links can be missed, other team members might put in a hold, attendees may not confirm. This is why it is VITAL to check the calendar first thing in the morning every day. The importance of this process can not be stressed enough.


1. First thing in the morning, open up the CEO’s calendar and click the first invite of the day. Ask yourself:
   1. Is the title correct?
   2. Is the location there?
   3. Has the attendee confirmed?
      1. If not, send them an email (see below)
   4. Is the description of the event filled out correctly?
      1. Location + Agenda + Contact info w/ Phone number
      2. If there is no phone number, send them an email (see below)
2. Keep going down each invite throughout the day, filling in the missing information / adjusting the calendar invite so that it is perfect. 
3. Once a week, on Fridays, open up all the invites for the next week to figure out who hasn’t confirmed, what info you’re missing, and to have a better gauge on what is coming down the pipe.
4. Look forward through 5 additional weeks to continue to familiarize yourself with upcoming events. 




Calendar Confirmation Email Templates 


Attendee confirmation:


Hey [Name], 


Hope you’re well. I’m confirming your call with the CEO today at [TIME]. Please confirm with me here, or on the calendar invite. 


All the best, 
[NAME]


Phone confirmation:


Hey [Name], 


Hope you’re well. I’m confirming your call with the CEO today at [TIME]. 


If you could also pass me your phone number, in case the CEO has any tech issues, that’d be great. 


All the best, 
[NAME]


Cold Outreach Meetup Invite Template
Subject Line: [Event Name] / [Your Name]


[NAME],


I found you on [PLATFORM], and am inspired by what you are building in the [Industry] space.


I’m hosting a new meeting series to reconnect with new + old friends from [Industry]…


… to share an update on my end [INSERT PROOF] and also hear what everyone else is up to.


Goal is to make a couple new friend, and also solve your biggest challenges.


All my resources and contacts will be used to help.


Think of it like a fun informal lunch event over zoom with [INSERT NUMBER] people max.


You free?


[NAME]
Scheduling Speaking and Podcast
The CEO prefers to have 1 virtual podcast on his calendar per week, but this is quickly slowing down, and in-person is the preferred method. 

Scheduling a Podcast 
1. When podcast requests come in, check to see if they’re a good fit (*see Researching Potential Podcasts/Interviews below / Past guests / Weekly views / If there is a prior connection). If it looks promising, send a message asking if they record in person. 
   1. Things to consider to have the CEO on their show 
      1. Reach the show has 
      2. Number of Apple Reviews
      3. Social following 


2. Calendaring Podcasts … 
   1. Include connection 
   2. Phone Number 
   3. Apple Podcast Link 
   4. Instagram AND Linkedin Pages


3. After Podcast Day
   1. Follow up with thank you note cc’ing the videographer 
   2. Ask for raw podcast with video to be sent along to the CEO when complete 


.
Requesting Recordings of Speaking Engagements


* When adding in speaking engagements into the calendar there needs to be a few things that are always there 
   * Duration of the Talk 
   * Title 
   * Connection to the host
   * How much they paid to have CEO speak
All speaking engagements should have the videographer added to the calendar entry. After the event has been recorded, if there was any video send the following email:




Hey NAME, 


The CEO had a great time being on X Show on DATE. 


When available, would you please pass along the raw footage (w/ video) of the recording to myself and Videographer(cc’d here). We’d love to have a copy of it to keep for our records. 


Appreciate your help!

Talk soon,
[NAME]


Scheduling Founder’s Dinner


1. Find the Founder’s Dinner list here. 
2. Whenever the CEO is headed to a new city, he typically will want to host a Founder’s Dinner for 10-12 people. 
3. Add to Admin Sync, to verify list, and then reach out to make sure the individuals are able to attend. 
4. Once confirmed, add them to the calendar invite. 


Processing SMS
Purpose: Everyday at 10 AM CT and 4 PM CT it is necessary for the admin to check and process any SMS requests that have come through from the CEO or CEO’s Wife. 


1. Open SMS and read all messages that have been received
2. Add each item to your immediate to-do list
3. Reply to the message, and respond what you’ve done to push the message forward.
   1. Ex. Sent Intro Email or Reached out to XYZ to confirm the podcast. 
4. Once the task has been completed, add to your Closing the Loop. 




Booking Travel
Purpose: Creating a procedure that reduces the time, guessing, and back & forth to create an amazing travel experience for the CEO.  All aspects of travel should be booked with enough time beforehand to secure best pricing, best options and notice to everyone involved in the trip.  Below is a complete list of details and preferences for booking hotels, flights, etc. for CEO and how to create the master TRIP file for CEO’s reference.
Expectations and Timelines
4 Weeks Out
	 6 Weeks Out
	8 Week Out
	* All Canadian Flights Booked
	* All American Flights Booked
	* All International Flights Booked
	

1. Block out days right away so that the schedule doesn’t allow calls to be booked that day(s)
2. Block out 1 day before and after for travel
3. Block out events from “date to date” and include name of event and dates in “subject” for quick view of availability (multi dates are shown as a thin line across top, not as visible to CEO)
4. Block out the start and end time for each day that the event is taking place, so the specific times show in the calendar and blocks out times to be scheduled by 3rd party scheduling apps
5. Complete calendar invite as above, however include all travel information in the description, ie. hotel info, flight info, parking, event itineraries, etc.
6. For flights, include the full flight # in the subject line for easy reference
Steps to Booking Travel
1. Determine Travel Dates
* Before bringing up the event to the CEO, make sure to have ALL pieces of information pertaining to the trip 
   * Who / What / Where / Why / How 
* If attending an event, determine what time the event begins and ends
* If CEO is speaking, find out what date and time and any other expectations/ commitments (ie. speaker dinners)
* Confirm with CEO approximate preferred arrival and departure date and times as well as preferred airports for both departure and arrival 
* Confirm dates with videographer
* Add travel dates to Travel Schedule 


2. Create a Trip File in Google Drive
* The TRIP file should be created as soon as the event has been confirmed
* This file becomes the master record of the complete event, and is used for all planning purposes
* Details such as people, locations, accommodations, flights, etc are to be added ASAP to the trip file.
* In Google Drive , open the template and copy and paste the title and body into a new google document: TRIP - [Cities, Cities, ] - [Month Departure Day - Return Day] - [Short Event Name/Reason]. Save to the TRIP folder in the playbook. 
* Include all relevant trip information that CEO would need to reference including confirmation numbers and contact details
   * Flight details (including booking #’s and electronic boarding passes when received)
   * Transportation information (ie Uber, Car rental details, etc.)
   * Accommodation information (including wifi and parking information if applicable
   * Itinerary of each day (including flight info, restaurant details for dinners, etc.)
   * People to connect with (names and emails of anyone CEO wants to meet up with while in town)
* Research nearby gyms and include the link to their website and schedules, the address, and price information for dropins.
* Attach any relevant docs (ie. event pdfs, insurance, etc.)


3. Research Trip Details
* If attending or speaking at an event, research event details - ie. start end times, venue, recommended hotels, planned activities, dinners, etc.
* 4. Create Calendar Reminders
* Create a calendar reminder to book flights (for domestic flights: book at least 3 weeks ahead, US flights: book at least 4 weeks ahead, all other international flights: book at least 6 weeks ahead)
* Create a calendar reminder 24 hours ahead of each flight to check in 
* Create a calendar reminder to check in with CEO if work needs to be done on car while he is traveling + add those details to calendar event
5. Create Calendar Events
* Create an “Extended Calendar Event” from date of departure to date of return (mark as “all day” and “busy” so no calls can be scheduled) (This event will go on the top line of the calendar screen and span the whole trip time selected)
   * Add the link to the Google Drive Trip file to the top of the description
   * Copy the details from the Google Drive Trip File to the Calendar event
   * Add CEO’s wife to the calendar event
* Create a calendar event for the CEO to have a trip planning session on the Sunday from 9:00am -10:00am AST, 7-10 days before he travels
* For trips longer than 5 days, add a 3 hour session from 9am-12pm on the first business day back from traveling called @inbox, for the CEO to process the inbox and catch up.
* Create/duplicate calendar event for any booked activities, conferences or speaking engagements, & travel for the trip in their designated time slots. (Verify all in proper time zones!)
* Create a 1 hr calendar event the night before travel for packing
* Create calendar events for any lunches, dinners (Add time of dinner/ lunch with time zone into the calendar event title as well)
* Create calendar events for any scheduled Fitness Classes 
* Create a calendar event for Rental Car pick up if needed, directly after flight
* Create a calendar event for Hotel check-in, directly after flight
* Create any other relevant events to the trip that will put the CEO in the right place at the right time with all the informations that he needs at his fingertips


Book Accommodations/Transportation
Flight Preferences:


* Duration:
* Connections:
* Airlines:
* Class:
* Seats:
* Time of departure:
* Time of arrival home:
* Time away:


Hotel Preferences:
* Book as early as possible to secure room and room rate
* Always book refundable rooms and make note of the cancellation policy
* Add hotel name, address, url, phone #, confirmation #, and any other important information (ie parking details, etc.) to the trip file and the extended calendar event description
* When booking a group rate, make sure the CEO's Wife name can be added to the reservation. 
* When attending or speaking at events, book the venue hotel or where the majority of speakers or attendees will be staying
* When booking hotel rooms request:
   * Highest floor/best view,
   * Near elevator, 
   * All booked rooms near each other,
   * King size bed, 
   * Latest possible check-out
   * Add a microwave and fridge for meal-prep


Transportation Preferences:
Uber:
Car Service:
* List of preferred places to hire a car, based on location
Car Rental:
* List of car rental companies that are vetted or with a previous account


How to Update Calendar with Flight Information
* Add all of the flight details to the main extended calendar event, including booking number
* Create a specific event for each leg of the flight, include the flight number in the title, make sure that the departure time zone and arrival time zone are accurate, change the colour to green
* Invite the CEO’s wife to the departure flight from home and the arrival flight home
* Do not include travel time to and from the airport or time needed to be in the airport prior to check in, in the calendar
* Add a reminder to assistant’s calendar 24 hours prior to checkin of both departure and return flight to check CEO in 


How to Handle Delays or Cancellations
* Refer to Google Drive Trip file for all relevant information
* Always keep CEO’s Wife in the loop in case she needs to make arrangements for the boys
* For delayed flights that result in a layover, research surrounding hotels with gym and be prepared to book the hotel to keep CEO productive and make sure he gets a workout in
* For cancelling flights, call airline and if available always get a credit or refund to the credit card instead of a credit with the airline
* Cancel hotel
* Cancel transportation (if applicable)
* Cancel any Founders Lunches or Dinners (if applicable) by canceling the calendar invite and reaching out to each attendee via email
* Cancel with any event organizers, if applicable (ie. in case of a speaking engagement)
* Cancel any attendees, if applicable (ie. in case of us hosting the event)
* Cancel any planned events, if applicable
* Remove all calendar events from calendar and re-set normal daily activities and meetings, if applicable
* If items are being shipped to the hotel, make necessary arrangements
Final Checks
* Have you researched all of the event details prior to discussing travel arrangements with the CEO?
* Have you added a calendar reminder to book flights at the appropriate time ahead?
* Have all of the travel details been added to the CEO’s calendar?
* Has each day been blocked off individually in the calendar (ie. so the CEO can see it in his calendar and so calendly knows?
* Has a reminder been set to check in the CEO 24 hours ahead for their flight(s)?
* Has the CEO been checked in 24 hours ahead and an aisle seat been selected? (if available)
* Have credits or promo codes been used?




Processing CEO Inbox
Purpose: The goal of processing the CEO’s email inbox is so that he has a clear understanding of which messages require his attention. Secondly, so that the senders get a responsive reply when it doesn’t require his attention (ex: Scheduling). Finally, to reduce the amount of time the CEO spends on emails and be able to guard his time accordingly. This is done twice a day.
Expectations and Guidelines
CEO’s Inbox Expectations
* Initial email response - X day(s)
* Email resolution - X day(s)
* Online order - X day(s)
* Notification of Payment owed - X day(s)
Assistant’s Inbox Expectations
* Initial email response - X day(s)
* Email resolution - X day(s)
* Online order - X day(s)
* Notification of Payment owed - X day(s)




How to Process the CEO’s Inbox
1. In the CEO’s inbox, starting from the oldest and working up to the newest, identify the type of email according to the categories listed below. Begin sorting each email into their respective locations. 
2. Emails that need to be reviewed with the CEO during your sync go into the Review Folder. These emails include: potential opportunities for the CEO (speaking, travel, investments within his network,) personal emails that you’re unable to identify the connection, etc. Clean up as many of the emails as you can on your own without bringing them to the CEO. 
3. Unsubscribe to as many newsletters and emails as possible, unless it's a newsletter from a friend.
4. Receipts should be tagged into the receipts box and archived.
5. …. 


How to Handle Unique Email Situations
1. For emails asking for the CEO’s opinions answering questions for a blog, or article:
   * Pass going forward unless from my clients or good friends.
2. If someone is looking for the CEO’s recommended books send them this blog
3. CEO does not typically collaborate content, unless it’s a super name brand (ex: NYT, Forbes, Steve Harvey, Slack, etc)


Rules for Labeling Emails
To Respond 
1. Any emails that the assistant is able to respond to (after a response has been given, remove To Respond and apply Responded
To Review 
1. Emails that need to be run by the CEO
   1. Questions 
   2. Run an event / opportunity by him 
   3. Unsure of how to respond 
Responded
1. Any emails that the assistant has replied to 
Waiting on 
1. Emails that you are “waiting on” a reply to take action 
Financials 
1. All “Daily Cash” 
Investment 
1. All Investment Opportunities 
Receipts
1. Any emails reflecting a purchase or a charge
Newsletters
* Comments on blog posts/ youtube video
Archive
1. If the email does not need any further action, has been labeled properly, it can be archived 




How to Respond on the CEO’s Behalf
When responding on the CEO’s behalf for the time use this basic template:


This is [Your Name], [CEO]’s assistant.


I got to your email before he did and thought you'd appreciate a speedy reply……


Common Request and Responses


Try to use the basic templates for responding on the CEO's behalf. They save time and are the approved ways of responding to someone.
1. When responding to pass on an investment opportunity


This is [Your Name], [CEO]’s assistant. 


I got your email before he did and thought you’d appreciate a speedy reply. 

Thank you very much for considering [CEO] for this investment opportunity in [XYZ product]. Unfortunately, at this time [CEO] is heads down working with coaching clients and is not looking at any new deals outside his immediate network. 

We wish you all the best on your journey of innovation, growth and success :) 


All the best!


2. When responding to pass on an event invitation


This is [Your Name], [CEO]’s assistant. 


I got your email before he did and thought you’d appreciate a speedy reply. 

Thank you very much for inviting [CEO] to [XYZ Event]. Unfortunately, at this time [CEO] is heads down working with coaching clients and is not available to attend.

We wish you all the best with your event!


Thanks!


3. When passing on a writing or blog collaboration
Hi [Name], 


This is [Your Name], [CEO]’s assistant. 


I got to your email before he did and thought you would appreciate a speedy reply. 


Thank you very much for putting these pitch ideas together, your desire to collaborate with [CEO] is flattering. [CEO] is very committed to creating great content, unfortunately, he isn't co-collaborating on his site at this time. 


Keep up the writing :) 
[Your Name]
Final Checks
1. The main Inbox is at zero (everything is sorted (labeled) and/or replied to)
2. Inbox has been checked a minimum of twice / day (ie. by 11am and 4pm CST)
3. Check Spam for misplaced emails
Coordinating with the House Manager


The house manager can help confirm deliveries, tell you what needs to be ordered, process returns, pick the boys up from school, watch them over weekends, drop things off around town, etc. She is very accessible and should be utilized to free up the CEO’s time as much as possible. 


When booking events at the CEO’s house, add the house manager to the event as ‘optional’ so that she is aware of what is happening in the house. 


The house managers normal hours are:
* Mon, Tue, Wed, Fri 10-6 pm
* Thurs 12-8 pm


For scheduling times that fall outside her normal schedule.
1. Confirm with the house manager over email if she's available, as soon as the event is confirmed. Ideally two weeks in advance.


Purchasing for CEO
Purpose: Purchasing is a very broad category with many different sections. When purchasing for CEO, follow purchasing for CEO guidelines.


Types of Purchases
* Company Purchases
* CEO Personal Purchases
* Gifting for:
   * Clients
   * Friends
   * Family
CEO Preferences
Refer to this document. 
How to Make Larger Purchases
Purchases over X-Amount that can not be paid with a credit card will require a wire transfer. Wire transfers take between 2-3 days to complete, so planning ahead and securing payment ahead of any due date is imperative. Work with the financial controller to send the wire, and ensure that all payments are made on time. 


1. Confirm purchase with the CEO, and get all necessary information to make the order. 
2. Confirm all banking information for the recipient. You will need:
   1. Name of the recipient’s organization
   2. Address of the recipient
   3. Name of the bank
   4. Address of the bank
   5. Bank code
   6. Transit number
   7. Account number
   8. Swift code (for wire transfers out of Canada)
   9. ABA routing number (for US transfers)
Purchasing Gifts for Others
General Gifting Checklist:
1. Research Host or Event Organizer Information
2. Search for Gift or Communicate with the Gift Company 
3. Get Approval of Gift from CEO
4. Purchase Gift
5. Track Shipping and Update CEO


Gifting Options:




—-


Ready for the Next Step? Are you ready to take the leap and transform your business and life? Picture yourself achieving more with less stress, all while reclaiming precious time for the things that matter most. Reach out to me on Instagram with the word “Elite” and let's chat to see if you’d be a fit. Talk soon.