Four years ago, we started building something that didn't exist. A life raft for financial professionals that are drowning in a new digital world.  A tool that could think, adapt, and execute like the best traders on Wall Street.
It’s been difficult but we have succeeded in building something incredible over four years. TLW Capital is trusting us with their strategies. KPMG wants to partner. We have $1.8B in client AUM because very successful financial professionals have looked at our vision, then looked at us - and said I see the value, I think those guys can deliver it, and I’m willing to open up my wallet for it.
At the same time there is a sense of being almost there.  What we built is exactly as we envisioned - some of the time.  When it works its magical.  But once we leave our controlled builds and demos it falls short.  It feels like the bones are there but its just a bit shy of the finish line.
The same can be said with our business side.  People have opened up their wallets - hell Troy will have paid a million dollars by the end of this year.  Yet we are struggling to find more Troys.  Funds are so different that we haven’t found that universal pain point or message yet, we don’t have that universal process although on all these fronts we are getting closer.
In both the tech and the business we have made more progress this quarter than any before it.  That was true last quarter too.  It’s very clear that we are accelerating. 
And that brings us to our values as these determine what we are accelerating towards.
________________


KNOW YOUR STUFF
In finance, ignorance isn't just embarrassing. It's expensive.
When a fund manager trusts us with their $500 million strategy, they're not buying our software. They're buying our expertise.
That's why we possess deep expertise. Adam understands market microstructure like a former JPMorgan quant. Our team speaks derivatives, algorithmic trading, and regulatory compliance fluently.
But expertise without growth becomes old outdated expertise.
So we maintain curiosity as lifelong learners. The markets evolve every day. New regulations drop monthly. AI capabilities advance weekly.
And here's the hard part... we embrace radical openness to new ideas and feedback.
When TLW Capital tells us our alert system doesn’t solve their problem, we don't defend. We adapt.
When a prospect points out flaws, we don't argue. We get better.
Know Your Stuff means being the smartest person in every room while staying humble enough to get smarter. And we as founders are very good at this.
________________


PAY THE PRICE
Becoming as ubiquitous as Bloomberg isn't a 9-to-5 game.
Markets never sleep. Opportunities don't wait for business hours. And neither do we.
Pay the Price means demonstrating unwavering passion for the work.
When we're drafting a pitch deck or debugging a futures trading algorithm over the weekend, we don't count hours. We count wins.
And yes, we willingly make necessary sacrifices without complaint.  It’s just who we are.
Because extraordinary things require extraordinary effort.
The banks with armies of developers? They're our competition.
The hedge funds with unlimited budgets? They're our competition.
We win because we want it more. Or we lose.
A lot of people would 
________________


ALWAYS FIND A WAY
This is where winners separate from everyone else.
In finance, "impossible" is just another word for "expensive to solve manually."
Always Find a Way combines entrepreneurial hunger with confident agility.
When Kensington needed their compliance monitoring system in 30 days instead of 90, we found a way.
When KPMG wanted to see our enterprise capabilities before discussing partnership, we found a way.
We deliver results, close deals, and ensure client success regardless of obstacles.
Because our clients don't have backup plans. They have us.
And we never, ever let them down.
________________


LOOK THE PART, ACT THE PART
We're not some scrappy startup hoping to get lucky.
We're the intelligence engine that billion-dollar funds rely on.
That means we communicate with excellence while maintaining professional appearance, consistency and demeanor.
When we walk into Goldman Sachs for a demo, they see peers. Not vendors.
When we present to family offices managing generational wealth, they see expertise. Not inexperience.
We command respect in high-stakes business environments because we belong there.
Every email is polished. Every presentation is precise. Every interaction reflects our caliber.
Because in finance, perception is reality.
________________


THINK IN SYSTEMS
Here's what separates us from every other financial technology company...
We don't just build features. We architect intelligence.
Think in Systems means we see every challenge through a systems lens.
When a client's trading strategy underperforms, we don't blame the markets. We analyze the system.
When implementation takes longer than expected, we don't blame the client. We improve the process.
We continuously improve processes rather than blaming people when problems occur.
Because systems scale. People don't.
Our KRONOS architecture didn't happen by accident. Our BAR methodology isn't just process. It's systematic thinking applied to complex problems.
That's why we can onboard enterprise clients in 30 days instead of 12 months.
That's why our AI agents work 24/7 without human intervention.
That's why we're building toward our 10-year target.
________________


OUR PURPOSE
Everything we do serves one mission: Empowering financial professionals to thrive.
Not just survive. Thrive.
Because behind every algorithm is a fund manager trying to deliver returns.
Behind every automation is a trader trying to capture opportunities.
Behind every system is a human being whose success depends on our excellence.
________________


OUR FUTURE
In 10 years, when financial professionals think "intelligence engine," they think 4Thought.
Just like they think Bloomberg for data.
Just like they think Reuters for news.
We will be as ubiquitous as Bloomberg.
That's not hope. That's inevitability.
Because we have something our competitors don't.
We have these values.
We have this team.
And we have the systems, passion, and expertise to make it happen.
________________


So here's my challenge to each of you...
Live these values every single day.
Not when it's convenient. Not when it's easy.
Every. Single. Day.
Because TLW Capital didn't choose us for our technology alone.
KPMG isn't talking partnership because of our features.
Kensington didn't trust us with $1.6 billion in assets because of our marketing.
They chose us because of who we are.
And who we are is defined by these five core values.
Know Your Stuff. Pay the Price. Always Find a Way. Look the Part, Act the Part. Think in Systems.
These aren't just values.
They're our competitive advantage.
They're our promise to every client.
And they're our path to becoming as ubiquitous as Bloomberg.
Now let's go build the future of financial intelligence.