Email to Jay Eum - GFT Ventures
Subject: Re: 4Thought Technologies - Correlation Ventures Ready to Co-Invest
Hi Jay,
Great connecting with you and Jeff last week. Your questions around our AI infrastructure for financial institutions and the NVIDIA parallels Jeff drew were spot-on.
I wanted to follow up with an exciting development: Correlation Ventures is ready to dig in and conduct full diligence if GFT Ventures decides to lead or co-lead our round.
Correlation uses a data-driven model and only invests alongside qualified institutional VCs. They've confirmed that GFT would meet their criteria to trigger their evaluation process, adding significant validation to our discussions.
Given your experience building Samsung's US venture operations and Jeff's NVIDIA background, I believe you understand the infrastructure play we're making in financial AI. Having Correlation ready to move quickly alongside GFT could accelerate our closing timeline.
Would you be interested in discussing how this might work with GFT as lead? Happy to provide additional materials or schedule a follow-up call with Jeff as well.
Best regards,
Richie
________________


Email to Naples Technology Ventures
Subject: 4Thought Technologies - Correlation Ventures Ready to Co-Invest
Hello,
Following up on our recent conversations about 4Thought's AI infrastructure platform for financial institutions.
I wanted to share an exciting development: Correlation Ventures is ready to dig in and conduct full diligence if Naples Technology Ventures decides to lead or co-lead our round.
Correlation uses a quantitative model and only invests alongside qualified institutional VCs. They've confirmed Naples would meet their criteria to trigger their evaluation process - significant validation for our AI infrastructure platform.
Given Naples' focus on B2B SaaS in financial services and your success with companies like Community Capital Technology, this seems like a strong strategic fit. Having Correlation ready to move quickly could accelerate our closing timeline.
Would you be interested in exploring how this might work with Naples as lead? Happy to provide additional details on our KRONOS architecture, customer case studies, or schedule a deeper dive call.
Best regards,
Richie Sater
CEO, 4Thought Technologies
richie.sater@4thoughtglobal.com
+1 (212) 381-4969