Hi {{Name}},
 
It's great to connect with you! Thank you for your interest in 4Thought Technologies.


As {{Connection}} mentioned, 4Thought Technologies empowers financial enterprises to transform their manual processes into AI-automated systems many times faster and cheaper than hiring a software development team.  


Front-office and back-office operations leverage 4Thought’s KRONOS infrastructure and AI agent workforce to capture missed opportunities, mitigate risks, and execute complex processes–all without having to code.  The Company is founded by alums of Bloomberg, Citi, EY, JP Morgan, and MIT and backed by strategic investors that include the U.S. National Science Foundation.




Key traction highlights:
* $550K pilot revenue (2024) - Successfully automated FX trading operations for TLW Capital Management
* Proven ROI: TLW Capital saves 120+ hours monthly and $967,500 annually in developer costs
* Expanding customer base: Now serving over $1.8B AUM across multiple financial institutions
* Market validation: Advanced discussions with KPMG for potential partnership/investment
We're addressing a $38B+ total addressable market across front-office trading automation ($8.1B), back-office compliance automation ($12B), and tax automation solutions ($18B). Our PACER™ go-to-market strategy has proven successful—each paid pilot becomes a case study that opens similar prospects at scale.
I'd love to share more about our business and how we're positioned to capture this massive opportunity. When might you be available for a brief call in the coming days?
Looking forward to connecting,


Richie Sater