Eventide Model H3000S Upgraded to H3500 Dynamic Ultra-Harmonizer - Mint Condition
"This Box is Magic" - Major Label Producer Ango
"This box is magic. Like, it has so much mojo, it's crazy... You go from like this well EQ'd vocal that I recorded in my bedroom to like, this is a voice on the radio."
That's what major label producer and Red Bull Music Academy instructor Ango says about the H3500 in this Red Bull Music Academy session: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FY8sEqf3-PQ&list=PLr1W4wy6tl-kXi9UUGObBdHXEFo37gXRZ&index=15
Ango has spent years writing songs for major label artists and development deals, constantly doing demos and developing artists in his Toronto studio. And he's not alone. The H3000 and H3500 units became the go-to digital multi-effects processor for top studios worldwide after its 1986 release.
Why This Unit is Special
This particular unit has lived a charmed life.
Originally It received the coveted H3000-to-H3500 EPROM upgrade during the 1990s. This wasn't just any upgrade. Eventide released these "Hightide" upgrade kits that transformed basic H3000 units into fully-loaded H3500 powerhouses with nearly 800 presets and algorithms - everything from the broadcast modules to artist signature settings from legends like Steve Vai and Bob Clearmountain
The upgrade required swapping out the original EPROMs with specially graded chips containing all the H3500B-DFX algorithms. Only serious studios invested in this upgrade back then.
Then in the early 2010s the unit was purchased by a successful tech entrepreneur for his personal music studio. Barely used. Meticulously maintained. Always kept in pristine condition.
Now it's time for this legendary piece of gear to find its next home where it can do what it was born to do - make magic.
The Sound That Built Hits
The unit's famous micro pitch shift algorithm does something no plugin can replicate. As Ango explains:
"The real thing has these primitive 16-bit converters from 1986 that were blessed by a genie or something... it just sounds amazing."
And about the magical transformation it creates:
"It doesn't feel digital. It just feels like it's expensive."
Those original converters create a musical quality that modern digital recreations simply can't match. This is the sound on countless radio hits. The secret weapon that transforms bedroom vocals into broadcast-ready gold.
What You Get
* Original Eventide H3000S upgraded to full H3500 specs
* All original algorithms and processing power
* Mint cosmetic and functional condition
* Complete with original manual and documentation
* Part of a carefully curated studio collection
What The Legends Say About The H3000/H3500
Brian Eno (U2, Talking Heads producer) loved his H3000 so much he wrote Eventide a personal letter, calling it "easy and inviting" and praising its unique sonic character.
Andrew Scheps (Grammy winner: Adele, Red Hot Chili Peppers) used the micro pitch shift "on every single record for ten years" because of its dimensional quality: "When you took it away, all of a sudden it would sound really two-dimensional."
Steve Vai was such an early adopter that he contributed 48 factory presets to the H3000S (patches 700-747), cementing the device's guitar credibility.
Tony Visconti created the legendary "Bowie snare drum sound" using Eventide processors throughout their collaborative work.
Frank Zappa used Eventide Harmonizers for his "wild harmonized guitar solos" that became his signature sound.
As engineer Andre Kelman (Beastie Boys) puts it: "The H3000 has been in service in studios all over the world for almost 30 years and heard on countless records. It easily sits in a class of its own."
The Bottom Line
Plugins try to copy it. Modern processors reference it. But nothing sounds like the real H3500.
This is your chance to own the actual magic box that shaped the sound of modern music production.
Ready to turn your bedroom vocals into radio-ready gold?
Ships fully insured with professional packaging. Serious inquiries only.