Table of Contents 
1) Sign In Process        2
Getting to Know the Upwork Job Feed        4
2) The Job Selection Process        6
What We Offer        6
What Good Jobs Look Like        10
Reviewing Client History        17
3) The Job Application Process        21
1. The Applying Process        21
2. Pricing        23
3. Cover Letter Application        25
4. Questions        48
5. Portfolio Highlights        49
6. Boosting        55
Boosting Strategy        58
The Boosting System        74
4) A Checklist for Job Applications        79
5) Tracking Your Work        83




________________
1. Sign In Process


1. Connect to Proton VPN
2. Sign into Upwork 


Part 1 - Connect to Proton VPN


1. Sign in to Proton VPN with this info:


ktrav4321@protonmail.com
User: ktrav4321
PW: $7ay$af3!*


2. Search for the Country “Japan”.
3. Select a “Tokyo” option, with a partial green circle (the more green the better).


When CONNECTED correctly, it will look like this:
  

________________


Part 2 - Sign into Upwork


Sign into Upwork with these details:


User: kevin.travers@clickthruvids.com


PW: (number code + these): ****


The first time you do this, Upwork will send a confirmation code to my phone (so I will need to help you out).


Once inside, select “recognize this device”. Then you should be able to log in with no problems (as long as you use VPN every time!)




Upwork Sign In Guidelines you MUST follow:


* Make sure you are connected to Proton VPN EVERY TIME before attempting to log in to Upwork.
* Login into Upwork ONLY during agreed working hours.
* Stay on the Job Feed page - NEVER navigate to any other page or section. 


Failure to follow these guidelines could lead to termination. 


________________


Getting to Know the Upwork Job Feed


Here is what the Job Feed looks like:


  



The good news is, our search filters are all set up. So all you need to do is stay on this page, and scroll down to review job postings.


________________


Job Post 


Job Posts are organized like this:


  



Blue - Job Title
Red - Budget/Hourly Rate, Skill Level
Yellow - Client’s Job Description
Green - Keywords client chose
Purple - Their star rating, total spent, Country, etc


Your job, put simply, is to:


* APPLYING to jobs that fit our criteria,
* Applying to these jobs correctly,
* NOT applying for jobs that don’t fit our criteria.


How to do so will be explained in detail next.




________________


2) The Job Selection Process
What We Offer


We make explainer videos. Usually animated, sometimes with live/stock footage incorporated also. We specialized in SaaS and tech clients, although not exclusively. 


Check out our website and Vimeo, get a feel for what we offer:


fifthavenueanimate.com
vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate


We offer 3 styles of videos, in most cases. 
________________




1. USER INTERFACE ANIMATION 


  
  

  
  



Our most popular. This is where we animate the software/app/website/platform for a client. It gives the feeling of real-time use, and is very effective at getting the viewer to want to learn more.


You can see full examples here. 
________________




2. 3D (2.5D) Isometric 


  
  



This is great for high-tech imagery (right example above), and also logistics and showing large scale stuff like factories (left example).


Clients won’t always know what it’s called, but often when shown to them for the right project, it’s a great fit.


You can see full examples here.
________________


3. 2D Animation 


  
  





This style is usually used for projects with characters (top left), and also infographic style videos (top right).


You can see full examples here.


Combinations


Note that sometimes, there will be combinations of styles.


For example, this video mixes UI animation, isometric, and stock footage. 


And this video is 2D animation, and shows a lot of UI.


And this video is 3D isometric, but also used 2D characters. 


You don’t need to worry about this too much, but it’s good to know that we can do this. 




________________


What Good Jobs Look Like


Now we will look closer at what makes a job good, and what makes a job bad.


How to Read a Job Post


Generally, the best way to review a job post is to:


* Read the title (blue)
* Read the Job Description (click “more” to see the full section) (yellow)
* Read the keywords for clues, if it’s vague (green)


  



If the job seems like a good fit, open it in a new link (for more careful review later). Once you have searched all the new jobs (you hit jobs you have already applied for), you can then move on to the APPLICATION process (Part 3 in this doc).
________________
Extra Notes:


You Have to Review Job Posts Carefully!


You need to actually review the job post carefully! Sometimes it might look like one type of job. But after reading it closely, you will see it's actually something else. 


For example, the title and keywords imply this might be a video project (the kind we do). But upon reading the description, they actually want to make an app that edits videos!


  



________________


Avoid Duplicate Jobs


Just apply to the most recent one.


  

________________


What We Are Looking For… And What We Aren’t


As simply as possible, I’ll try to outline how to recognize good jobs.


* A business or organization is looking for one video (or a small group, 5 max, of videos).
* The video is often for their website, but also could used as an advertisement, or to play on screen at a convention, etc
* The are generally looking for higher quality (no clues that they want a low quality, cheap one)
* They are looking for a reasonable time frame (at least one week, no clues like “Need it tomorrow” etc)
* They’re generally looking for a video that fits out styles:
   * software/app/User interface demo
   * 3D isometric style (or something that might fit)
   * A 2D of motion graphics video
* They’re looking for Expert or Intermediate skill level
* Their budget is decent (minimum $1000 fixed or $40/hr)
* They’re looking for something in the range of 15 seconds minimum to 5 minutes maximum (usually will be 30-180 seconds range). We don’t do large volume jobs unless the budget is great. 
* They are not from India, Pakistan, Nigeria, or the Ukraine (higher chance of issues with these countries). These countries should be filtered out anyway, through the search function we set up.




________________


Helpful Keywords


Some words the client might use to explain what they need (and help you recognize it):


* “explainer video"
* "animated explainer"
* "motion graphics"
* "2D animation" (this is a general term, will need more info)
* "Isometric" (if they ask for isometric animation its rare, but GREAT - we specialize in it)
* "corporate video"
* "video production" (very general, need more info)
* "promo video"
* "product video"
* "Explainer"
* "video advertising"
* "video ad"
* "motion design"
* "video editing" (general, but often there will be more clues)


If any of these are combined with the keywords below, chances are it’s a good job possibility.
* SaaS 
* Software
* Platform
* User Interface/UI


Also, if they provide a link to a video reference, and it fits the style we do.
________________


What We DON’T Do:


* Regular animation for YouTube channels (these are usually high volume/low pay). They may say things like “join our team”, “regular work”... Or “we need 1 video a day” or “$100 per video” or some other small number.
* Regular/full time editing jobs
* General editing jobs (we don’t do editing jobs. However, sometimes the title will say something like “Video Editor”, then in the description they’ll outline needing the type of videos we make)
* 3D or 4D projects (unless for Video Production type jobs. For example, if they’re asking for a 3D music video/short film, and have a big budget). Definitely no 3D Product/Real Estate/Industrial animation. 
* Anything requiring photography or videography/filming/shooting scenes
* Small jobs (I need an animated GIF for my website, I need to animate a logo, I only need a voiceover, etc). We only do 30 second-plus jobs for videos, and not parts of the project.
* NFTs
* High-volume Social Media Content Creation (although sometimes, if they want 1-5 high quality videos for social media, that’s ok)
* AI animation (we don’t do AI animation yet)
* Crazy deadlines (needing the video in under 1 week)
* A job post you feel like you’ve applied to more than twice. Sometimes a client will keep posting the same job over and over. If we didn’t get it after 2, we probably won’t, so no need to waste money.
* Clients from India, Pakistan, Nigeria, or Ukraine (unfortunately more scams from these countries. They’re removed from the filter, so shouldn’t come up, but just in case.)
* Anything that doesn’t fit a defined video or set of videos, at a solid budget. 


Review in detail the Examples of Jobs NOT to Apply For here.




________________
Reviewing Client History


Part of reviewing a job post is reviewing the client history. If you scroll down the job posting, you will see client history below.


Most cases are okay. But we are looking to eliminate clients who regularly either 1) get bad reviews, and 2) give bad/mediocre reviews. 


Bad
  

Disaster, this guy seems like drama.


  



One bad job, the rest high rating, these types are probably okay.
  

  

  



A couple bad jobs… but when you look closer, it seems all the bad reviews came from one freelancer. So probably okay.


  



________________
3) The Job Application Process


Once you have opened all the potential jobs for the day (and reached the “Applied Jobs” from the previous session)...


It’s now time for Step 2 - to review in more detail, and apply to the good jobs.


Job Description Review (In Detail)


Taking a closer look…


Review the Job Description in more detail. Confirm this is a good job to apply to (with no red flags). 


If it is, it’s time to apply!


1. The Applying Process


Submit a Proposal


If it’s a confirmed good job, click Submit a Proposal. This will take you to the application page. 


  



Proposal Settings


Select the appropriate Profile: Motion Graphics for all of the jobs you will be doing.


  





________________
2. Pricing


  



How to determine pricing:


Important note! We never want to LOWER the budget. If it’s above our minimum fixed rate budget, that’s great. Leave the budget as is!


If no length of video is mentioned OR it’s stated as 1 minute/60 second video (this includes ranges, such as “60 to 90 seconds”, etc):


* If the hourly rate is under $50/hr, raise it to $50. If it’s $50/hr or over, leave as is.
* If the fixed rate is under $2000, raise to $2000. If the budget is $2000 or more, leave as is.


If the video is stated to be over 1 minute:


* If the hourly rate is under $50/hr, raise it to $50. If it’s $50/hr or over, leave as is (always do this, length of video won’t change hourly)
* Add $500 to the minimum fixed rate of $2000, for each extra minute. So:
   * 2 min = $2500
   * 3 min = $3000
   * 4 min = $3500
   * 5 min = $4000


If their budget is UNDER our minimum fixed rate for this stated length, raise it to the minimum. If the budget is OVER our minimum fixed rate, leave as it is.


So for example, if they ask for a 5 minute video, and their budget is $2000, RAISE it to $4000. But if their budget for the same 5 -video was $5000, we would LEAVE the budget as is.


Select Duration 


Always select under 1 month.


  



________________


3. Cover Letter Application


For this job, we have a cover letter template we use. Then you will personalize in a few spots, to make the letter applicable to the person reading.


So first step, copy and paste this Cover Letter into the Cover Letter section:
  



Cover Letter to Copy/Paste:
(April 16, 2025 Version)
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1RCQpvxLLhr6mKTtIdKpbe6ghP7eDjwRV_8XY2gwVDVA/edit?usp=sharing




________________


Cover Letter Personalization


Next, we want to gather some information about the client, to help us personalize the cover letter to them specifically. 


Personalization is VERY important - clients get tons of applications, and we quickly want them to feel like they are talking to a real person, and that we took the time to understand their job application.


Always take great care with personalization, and double check all spelling to make sure it's correct. 


The information we hope to find is:


1. Their name
2. Their company 
3. Their city or country
4. Hello in their language
5. The type of video they are looking for, in the language they use.
6. A special line if they provide a link.


Numbers 1-4, we use to personalize the green text line in the image below (from the Cover Letter). Use as many of these as you can. Some will have 1, some will have 4. There will be examples below.


And #5, we use to personalize the orange text line in the image below.


  



1. Their Name


Most important! Nothing more personal than their name. Scroll down on the Job Post. At the bottom, sometimes you’ll see previous Freelancers mention their name. 


For example, this client is clearly named Dan:
  



So we would say “Hey Dan!” 


If you see multiple names in different reviews, use the first two you see, and add “and Team!” (ie “Hey James, Ann, and Team!”)


2. Their Company Name


Sometimes they will mention the company in the Job Title or Job Description (ie “Our Client Microsoft is looking for a video…”)


You may also see their company name mentioned in the previous freelancer reviews (ie “Dan from Microsoft was great to work with!”). 


Here we would add to the green personalization line, with the name if possible. 


Some possible combos:
Hey Microsoft Team!
Hey Dan and the Microsoft Team!
Hey James, Ann, and the Microsoft Team!


3. Their City or Country


We personalize further by including their country, or their city in the US if available. You can find this info on the right column of the job post. 


If the country is the US, and they say their city:
  



Some possible combos in the examples above:
Hey in Bayonne!
Hey in Bayonne, Microsoft Team!
Hey in Bayonne, Dan and the Microsoft Team!
Hey in Bayonne, James, Ann, and the Microsoft Team!


  



Sometimes, they will only say the United States. In these cases, I like to say, “Hey neighbor to the South!” If no other information is available. If there is more info, just use USA as location. 


Some possible combos in the examples above:
Hey neighbor to the South!
Hey in the USA, Microsoft Team!
Hey in the USA, Dan and the Microsoft Team!
Hey in the USA, James, Ann, and the Microsoft Team!


Some other fun personalizations - if their city has a sports team, and that season is currently going.


So for example, if they are from New York, and the baseball season is running, you could say something like:


Hey in New York, Dan and the Microsoft Team! (Go Yankees)


Or if they are from Los Angeles, and the basketball season is running:


Hey in LA, James, Ann, and the Microsoft Team! (Go Lakers)


I like to add “Howdy” instead of Hey, if they’re in Texas or other Southern states. 


Other Countries


If they are from Canada, I like to say “Fellow Canadian! (Mississauga here) This really works!


Examples:
Hey fellow Canadian! (Mississauga here)
Hey Microsoft Team, fellow Canadians! (Mississauga here)
Hey Dan, fellow Canadian! (Mississauga here)
Bonjour in Montreal, Dan! Fellow Canadian (Mississauga here).








Australia 


I usually say “G’Day in Australia!” and add other name/company personalizations. Fine to throw in their city too.


G’Day in Australia!
G’Day in Sydney, Microsoft Team!
G’Day in Australia, Dan and the Microsoft Team!
G’Day in Melbourne, James, Ann, and the Microsoft Team!


UK/England etc


I like to say “Good Day in the UK” then add name personalizations etc. I’ll add the city too here, if possible.


Good Day in the UK, James, Ann, and the Microsoft Team!
Good Day in London, James, Ann, and the Microsoft Team!




If they are from other countries, I like to just say their country, and add the “Hello” personalization below. 


4. Hello in their language 


One last cool personalization - we say hello in their language, when possible. Using Google Translate (link here), you can do this easily.


So for example, if the client is Swedish, you would copy this:


  



So examples:
Hallå in Sweden!
Hallå in Sweden, Microsoft Team!
Hallå in Sweden, Dan and the Microsoft Team!
Hallå in Sweden, James, Ann, and the Microsoft Team!


Or if it’s Arabic or Mandarin, you can copy the symbols (a very nice touch):


  



So examples:
你好 in Singapore!
你好 in Singapore, Microsoft Team!
你好 in Singapore, Dan and the Microsoft Team!
你好 in Singapore, James, Ann, and the Microsoft Team!


5. The type of video they are looking for 


For the final personalization, we address the orange line - personalizing the type of video they are looking for. The line is:


Great news, we specialize in animated explainer videos (more on that below).


And in particular, we specialize the “animated explainer videos” section.


Note: we don’t want to use so many words that it becomes unnatural. Keep it 3-4 words max.


So examples:


If the client provides a link, and it’s clearly the style we do. They describe it as a “software demo”


Great news, we specialize in the software demo style of your reference video (more on that below).


  



Great news, we specialize in SaaS explainer videos (more on that below).


  

Great news, we specialize in punchy explainer videos (more on that below).


  



Great news, we specialize in the isometric animation style you’re looking for (more on that below).


  



Great news, we specialize in app motion graphics (more on that below).


  



Great news, we specialize in AI-related marketing videos (more on that below).


  



Great news, we specialize in app and software related videos (more on that below).


  



Great news, we specialize in animated SaaS explainer videos (more on that below).


  



Great news, we specialize in software product demos (more on that below).


  



Great news, we specialize in app motion design videos (more on that below).


Another cool thing we’ve started doing - add a fun fact about their city. 


A great new feature on Google. You can search “cool facts (city)” they provide, and Google will show you some interesting facts. 


For example:
  

Anything unique, such as "capital of the world” is GREAT.




  

If there’s nothing too specific:
  

You can use the “jewel of X” comment, referring to a region that comes up. You could also say “Home of the May River”, that’s a good option here too.
  

________________


Some recent examples:


Hey in Tempe (home to ASU), Mark!
Hey in LA, Maryna (Go Lakers)!
Hey in Hanford (key to the Manhattan Project)!
Hey in Haverhill (home of Winnekenni Castle), Stephen!


6. If they provide a link….


Add this line at the end:


We can make a video equal in quality and style to your *(COMPANY NAME FROM THE VIDEO LINK)* reference.


  





Personalizing the Links Section 


There is a section in the Cover Letter where the links are. This is another area we can personalize, by removing irrelevant links:


  



The most common situation is where they are clearly looking for the first style, the UI/SaaS demo/walkthrough. They may provide a video link that shows this style, or describe “a video that shows our software/app features” etc.


If so, you would remove the other options:


  



Or if they are clearly looking for a 3D isometric style (more rare)


  



Or they are clearly looking for 2D, character-style videos:
  



When in doubt, leave all 3 options there. Only delete options if they are clearly only looking for one style. 


We also have some SPECIALIZED sections we can copy/paste. These include examples of projects we’ve done in the client’s field (very effective at demonstrating we can create what they want!) Use these if it’s the type of project they are looking for:


Finance/FinTech Related


Here is a collection of recent finance/fintech related projects we have completed:
https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fo/j95iemxpk8ep5l7zo1075/AKE9noa0lJjBt1R86oJDoPg?rlkey=ynhbtnbz55hghrmjiggq3l4oj&st=ktq7qi76&dl=0


Example project:
  



And here is how the personalization should look (note - you can keep sections still relevant. Since this mentions ‘SaaS’ a ‘platform’, it’s good to keep the UI Link, and add the Finance/Fintech link below it):


  



  

Healthcare Related


And here is a collection of our recent healthcare-related projects:
https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fo/5kdd8d9aivhu3y3wnrwa1/ALUQLpPf96j_DuRrTGtayf4?rlkey=yat5lvqwixmoa4lirpr4acwc3&st=94m6bc1g&dl=0


Vehicle Related


  



And here is a collection of our recent vehicle-related projects:
https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fo/m2xzwsrv234dv1iw9ohgy/AMkkMBFByNtJr-jSRCAsdpA?rlkey=6we0r05uv8e6kpm8l1tv46wm2&st=250f667p&dl=0


  



Live Footage
Sometimes clients are looking for a dynamic live footage edit video (review samples in link)


And here is a collection of our recent live footage video ads projects:
https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fo/wgbz2xtpa4uniwjxwciqs/ALMlUnWweIe5QYmhKyxYjlE?rlkey=iqr1dcjskh74lvczmtflix5qw&st=bh31bi6j&dl=0 


Cybersecurity Related


Here is a collection of our recent cybersecurity-related projects:
https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fo/qgpuwqg5p220kgcn87pmk/AL7Is-EwVLhOwgLcn8wxo9U?rlkey=fl8mb21m3w94iy035lek98xmm&st=6tpikywp&dl=0


Kinetic Typography


Here is a collection of our recent cybersecurity-related projects:
https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fo/j7m2qje74a1x5rkgq5fzz/AEDv5OjngkWZF_VqG2B0Vtg?rlkey=8v05jst4cnqyos5xz4y9ejpxf&st=9ufhnh0c&dl=0






________________






Extra Note: “Gotcha!” Questions


Sometimes, a Client will ask a “gotcha!” question. This usually means asking you to write a line of text to show you read the job post properly.


Examples:
“To show you read this, type ‘purple elephant’ at the top of your response.”
“At the top of your letter, write how many years you’ve been doing this.”


Always watch out for these in Job Descriptions, and add the extra detail as asked.


  

In this case, you would add “Read description” to the first line of the cover letter.
  

________________


4. Questions


Sometimes they’ll ask you questions:
  



We’ve already developed great answers over the years. You can copy and paste them here:


Motion Graphics Answers
Explainer Video Question Sheet - Google Docs








________________


5. Portfolio Highlights


  

This section allows us to show our past work. It’s a great chance to impress the client, and show previous work relevant to their job. 


The tricky part - you cant search, so it’s a bit tedious to select each one. Make a list on which page you can find each video (for example, LeadJect is currently on Page 7, etc)


Click “Add Portfolio Project”, then select the following videos for each type of project:


The default (vague applications)
Lead Jet
Digital Ocean
Purefy
Myko


SaaS focused (but not specific UI reference video or ‘Demo/Promo’ in description)
Lead Jet
Digital Ocean
Myko
Purefy


UI focused, or specific SaaS/software demo/walkthrough/run through language
Lead Jet
Myko
Plan Your Travel
Leasecake


App Related
Plan Your Travel
Property DriveBuy
Myko
Gaido


Finance Related
Purefy
Leasecake
Mobius One
Thomas Murray


FinTech
Leasecake
Contrax
Leadjet
Purefy


Mentions car/plane/boat/vehicles AND app/SaaS/software platform
Gridio
Planitas
Lead Jet
Myko


Example:
  



Mentions car/plane/boat/vehicles (No software/app mention)
Gridio
Planitas
STS
Pfizer


Great example for a car-only project:
  



Mentions wanting to show Factory/Industrial Park/Oil drilling, otherwise wide shot of a technical environment
Pfizer
Paqtana
360 Drilling
STS


They ask for 2D animation and/or characters, with no clues to softwares/apps, etc
Purefy
Mobius One
EGEA SRI
Into 23


Example:
This project had a good budget, but had a vague description. Looking at their reviews, they seem to be focused on Playground Safety? So not tech-related. Probably best to treat as a 2D character project. 


  



Infographic related, or vague 2D description:
Purefy 
Mobius One
Thomas Murray
EGEA SRI


Healthcare Related
Eurofound 2022
Klara
Altrua HealthShare
SNF


Chatbot/Some kind of Chat AI or software
Myko
LeadJet
Tugi Tark
GRIT


Cybersecurity Related
Myko
Unqork
Contrax
Apono


Kinetic Typography
Myko 
Plan Your Travel
Plan Away
Mobius One




________________


6. Boosting


Upwork has a boosting system, where you can pay more to show up in the Top 4 of a client’s inbox.


We use a hybrid system - we boost promising jobs, and don’t boost (just send for the minimum Connects) if the Connects required is over our threshold. 


Our system is optimized to stay in the top of the inbox as long as possible… without Boosting TOO much and wasting Connects unnecessarily. 


Note: When in doubt, if you’re unable to determine between two levels, choose the lower option (less Connects). 


Then send the Job Post as part of your daily review (also explained later).


It may seem a bit overwhelming at first, as is admittedly the trickiest part of the job. But I think a focused manager who does this daily will learn it fairly quickly.


The Boosting section looks like this. There is the standard minimum Boost (this one is 10 Connects)


  



And then you can choose a Connects number, and click Set Bid. The Summary will now tell you the TOTAL Connects you are set to bid (The minimum Boost + Your Bid). This example has a 35 Bid, for reference, which takes the total to 45 Connects.


  







________________
Boosting Strategy


Here is our general Boosting System. I will explain in more detail below what it means and how to read it. Note the Max Connects references the TOTAL Connects you are allowed to Boost (Your Bid + the Minimum).


In most cases, you won’t have to bid near your max. This will be explained below. 


In cases where you follow the Bidding system, and it goes OVER your Max Connects Bid - Set a new bid to 0, and send for the Minimum number of Connects. In these cases, we don’t want to go over the max bid. But we will still apply for the minimum,on the small chance they see the application and respond. 


But otherwise, we should always be boosting, if the system says to and we aren’t going over our Max Connects limit.


Perfect Fit Jobs
	Vague/2D/Red Flags
	Fixed 
(3 min max)
	Hourly 
Rate
	Max Connects
	Fixed 
(3 min max)
	Hourly 
Rate
	Max Connects
	3K+
	$100+
	250
	3K+
	$100+
	150
	1-3K
	$65+
	150
	1-3K
	$65+
	75
	

	$50+
	75
	

	$50+
	50
	500-1K
	$40-49
	50
	500-1K
	$40-49
	SKIP
	

Perfect Fit Jobs are defined as:


* SaaS/software/app/User Interface (UI) platform related (fits our UI STYLE) OR a very clear fit for 3D isometric (their reference video fits this style, they ask for 3D isometric, or it’s a subject that fits 3D isometric well).
* No major red/yellow flags


So you will see here, the best case is a $3000+ budget, for a max 3 minute video (ideally 60-90s) that fits our style well (usually UI, occasionally 3D isometric). And with no red/yellow flags.


Vague/2D/red or yellow flags are defined as:


* Jobs that are vague or don’t specifically fit our best styles.
* Jobs that involve 2D characters or motion graphics and no obvious UI element (these styles are more common, and we have less of an advantage)
* Jobs that fit our style, but have one/a few red or yellow flags
* Note that for these jobs, we DON’T apply to budgets under $1K or $40/hr max or less.


Adjustment Rules


Assume Fixed price is for up to 3 minutes max (ideally 30-90s range). If it’s more than this, drop down a level for each extra 2 minutes (ie for a 3-5 minute long video at a 3K budget, just treat it like a 1-3K budget, one drop down in the table)


If a job has a big red flag (or a few small ones), also drop it down one level on the table. So a 1-3K budget at Perfect Fit would usually be 150 max Connects. With a Red Flag, we drop it down to the 75 max Connects tier (the one that says $50+).


When in doubt (can’t choose between two levels), choose the smaller bid number.


Examples


Let’s see some of these examples in practice. 


NOTE: Remember, we DON’T bet the max in these spots. Choosing the right Boosting amount will be explained below. The Max is simply the most we are willing to bid.


250 MAX Bids


Here we want perfect fit, 3K+ or $100/hr+ jobs. The best of the best.


5K budget, fintech and platform related, 30-60 seconds…. A dream job here. They are rare, and when we see them we want to personalize and Boost the right amount to maximize the change we get it.
  





5K for an app demo, 2 minutes… a perfect job again.
  

5K budget for an isometric animation. 4 animations is a little vague (doesn’t say how long each is), but still good enough to treat it as a top job. 
  

We use After Effects, so all good.


  



________________


150 MAX Bids


150 Max Bid Jobs could follow a few criteria:


* Perfect Fit Jobs at 1-3K or $65/hr+ budgets,
* Perfect Fit Jobs at 3K+ or 100/hr+ but with red flag(s)
* Vague/2D jobs at 3K+ or 100/hr+ (you can see here that you can treat Vague/2D jobs with no UI as “red flags”, if it helps simplify it)


Perfect Fit Examples


  

  

  

    



  

  

  

  

  

  

Our 3D isometric style is technically 2.5D. This is a great job to treat as 3D isometric focused:
  
________________



Vague/2D/Red Flag Examples


Really great budget here, but a couple red flags: 2-3 videos for 5K, so the budget is a little stretched. And it’s a little vague about the subject (not clearly SaaS related). BUT, they are saying 2-3 videos/month at this budget, which potentially is a great green flag. So we will balance it out, and treat it as a 200 max. 
  



2D/infographic related. Good budget but not our specialty, so treat it as 150 max.
  

Vague 
  



75 MAX Bids


75 Max Bid Jobs could follow a few criteria:


* Perfect Fit Jobs between $50 and $65/hr budgets,
* Perfect Fit Jobs at 1-3K+ or $65/hr+ but with red flag(s)
* Vague Jobs 1-3K or $65+/hr


A good App demo, $50 max of their budget range
  

Budget here is good. The problem - not clearly related to what we do (vague). Also, note they are looking for “videos”, but doesn't say how many... this could be a red flag, they may expect this budget to be for multiple videos. As such, drop it down a level. We could even drop it 2 levels down to 50 MAX… it’s close. 
  

Good budget, a little vague (what is the product?)
  





50 MAX Bids


50 Max Bid Jobs could follow a few criteria:


* Perfect Fit Jobs between $500-1K and up to $49/hr budgets,
* Perfect Fit Jobs at $50-64/hr+ but with red flag(s)
* Vague/2D jobs at $50-64/hr+


Fintech at $40/hr
  

Vague at $60/hr
  

$750 budget, but tech-related.
  



$500 but Platform (therefore SaaS) related:
  

(Notice, we must have a good reason to apply to a budget under $1K or $49/hr.)


Good budget, lead gen agency is a bit unclear (software? Characters? etc)


  



App or SaaS related, but low budget:
  

  

  

________________


The Boosting System 


Reminder again that we don’t automatically boost the MAX. This is usually a big waste of money. 


How much to boost depends on:
* The value of the job (outlined in previous section)
* The current Boost amounts 
* How long ago the previous Boosts are


There are a few situations you may run into.


Hot Job - The Job is New (Still Low Connects #s)


You are applying for a job, and see it was posted in the last couple of hours. Often in these spots, there are no Boosts, or a few small ones.


The problem here is, these Boost numbers will escalate quickly. So if we Boost too small, we may be outbid soon (and knocked out of the top 4).


In these cases, we will Boost a solid amount, that after experience we have learned have a good chance of leaving up top 4. 


For Max Bids, Boost this number for New Jobs:


250 MAX Jobs = Boost 100 Connects
150 MAX Jobs = Boost 65 Connects
75 MAX Jobs = Boost 40 Connects
50 MAX Jobs = Boost 25 Connects


These are good average “guesses” when we have information on the Boosting history. 


So for example, for 150 MAX jobs, we would make a boost that equals 65 Connects (Minimum Boost PLUS your Boost, making 65 total. Don’t BID 65 - it should be the total when added to the minimum).


Warm Job - Most of the Boosts are 1-6 hours ago/half 12+ hrs ago, half in the past few hours (and already have higher Connects #s)


This can be one of two situations:


* Most of the Boosts are less than 12 hrs old (so not a brand new post, but still getting attention)
* It’s a split, with a few old (12+ hrs ago boosts), and a few in the past 6 hours. 
* Or more simply, already has higher Connects numbers (seeing 20-30 Connects already, etc)


So the job is still somewhat hot, but not brand new.


In this case, we boost a # of Connects ABOVE the Top Boost.


250 MAX Jobs = We Boost 20+ Connects more than the #1 Boost
150 MAX Jobs = Boost 10+ Connects more than the #1 Boost
75 MAX Jobs = Boost 10+ Connects more than the #1 Boost
50 MAX Jobs = Boost 5+ Connects more than the #1 Boost


Cold Job - 3 or 4 of the Boosts are 12+ hours old


These jobs have cooled, so we don’t need to boost as much.


250 MAX Jobs = We Boost 5+ Connects more than the #1 Boost
150 MAX Jobs = Boost 3+ Connects more than the #1 Boost
75 MAX Jobs = Boost 1+ Connects more than the #1 Boost
50 MAX Jobs = Boost 1+ Connects more than the #1 Boost


I have followed the system - the number goes over my MAX Connects number!


Ahh this will happen sometimes, and it’s the reason we have a MAX Connects.


Let’s say we have a Perfect Fit Job at $2500. This would be 150 Connects Max. 


Let’s say the Minimum Bid is 17 Connects. 


And the current Boosting situation is a Warm Job (all bids in the last 3-7 hrs).


You examine the Boosts, and you see:


1st Place: 125
2nd Place: 120
3rd Place: 118
4th Place: 115


You follow the system, adding +10 (ie Boosting 135). When added to your Minimum, this comes to 152.


Oh no! This is higher than your Max!


In such a case, don’t panic. We follow a 2-step process here.


1. Is there a bid we can make to land as high as we can in the Top 4, without going over?


In this case, #2 is 120 Connects. If we Bid 121, this takes us to #2 now. 121 + 17 = 138, under our MAX. So we do this. 


2. If there are no Bids we can make that land us in the Top 4, then we Bid ZERO, and just submit the job for the MINIMUM (in this case, 17 Connects).


Not being Top 4 hurts our chances, but worth making a small bet, hoping the algorithm places us high enough to be seen.


















________________


Last Step: Submit Job 


Click ‘Yes I understand’ (shows up on Fixed Rate jobs), then Continue to Submit. 


  



When complete, it will take you back to the Job Posting, with a box at the top of the screen saying your application is complete.




Sometimes at the top of the job, you will get a box like this. If it says “You CAN’T submit a proposal”, close the job. You will notice you cant apply anyway.


If it says “you may still apply”, you can still apply. But drop it down one Level (ie Perfect Fit 3K job becomes 1-3K now, etc)
  

________________


4) A Checklist for Job Applications


Here is a summarized checklist of everything to consider during job applications, for quick access.


1. Select the Motion Graphics profile. 
2. Review the Title, Description, and other sections. Is this a good job to apply to?
3. Review Budget Section. Change if the Fixed Rate budget is below our minimum.
4. Select Less Than 1 Month for project time frame. 
5. Copy/Paste the Cover Letter into the Cover Letter section.
6. Personalize the “Hey in ***!” section, using these where we can:
   1. Their name
   2. Their company name
   3. Their city or country (with fun fact about the city if possible)
   4. Hello in their language
7. Personalize the Great news, we are the Upwork animated explainer video specialists (more on that below) line. Describe the project in their words. 
8. If they provide a link, add this line at the end:


We can make a video equal in quality and style to your *(COMPANY NAME FROM THE VIDEO LINK)* reference.


  





9. Personalize the LINKS section. We can delete the links that aren’t relevant to the Project. We can also add new links for certain specific projects (finance related, health care related, vehicle related, live footage editing, etc)


Specialized Link Sections:


UI Specific


Here is a collection of recent software UI-related projects we have completed:
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/leadjet 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/myko
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/lucidya 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/qase 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/leasecake 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/plan-your-travel 


App Related


Here is a collection of recent app-related projects we have completed:
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/plan-your-travel 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/property-drive-buy 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/gridio 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/leasecake 
http://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/gaido
http://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/koji 


Investment/Finance Related


And here is a collection of recent finance related projects we have completed:
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/mobius-one 
http://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/base-carbon 
http://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/innova-wealth 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/leasecake 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/purefy
http://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/thomas-murray 


FinTech Related


And here is a collection of recent fintech related projects we have completed:
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/leasecake 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/leadjet 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/purefy
http://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/contrax
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/3-key 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/mobius-one 


AI Related Product


And here is a collection of our recent AI-related projects:
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/myko
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/leadjet 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/tugi 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/predictive-hr
http://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/tegi
http://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/moii


Healthcare Related


And here is a collection of our recent healthcare-related projects:
http://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/yerbba-ui
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/yerbba-explainer 
http://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/klara
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/e-take 
http://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/snf
http://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/eurofound-2022


Live Footage


And here is a collection of our recent live footage video ads projects:
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/base-carbon
http://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/abaxx 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/whrever
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/egea-2
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/3-key


2D Character/Motion Graphics Related
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/purefy
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/into23
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/i-5O 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/snf
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/eurofound-2022 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/mobius-one 


Cybersecurity Related


And here is a collection of our recent cybersecurity-related projects:
http://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/contrax
http://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/unqork
http://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/apono 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/garantir 


Kinetic Typography


And here is a collection of our recent kinetic typography-related projects:
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/myko
http://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/plan-away 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/plan-your-travel 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/mobius-one 


Real Estate Related


And here is a collection of our recent real estate-related projects:
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/property-drive-buy 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/crowda 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/leasecake 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/ethicaai 


Transportation/Logistics (use for all vehicle/factory/transportation/logistical stuff)


Here is a collection of our recent transportation/logistics-related projects:
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/pfizer 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/gridio 
http://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/paqtana 
http://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/planitas
http://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/360-drilling 
http://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/hubfleet






If the client asks for AI/AI generated animation/video


Here are some examples of our cutting edge AI work!


Product 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/ai-chanel  
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/ai-nike  
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/ai-coca-cola 


Animation/Characters 
https://youtu.be/mByBvdaK_Kk?si=n1kfX1sVM3D3RWyI   


Inforgraphics


Here is a collection of our recent infographic-related projects:
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/thomas-murray 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/innova-wealth 
http://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/mobius-one 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/egea-1
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/kilgore-wealth 


Vehicle/Transportation/Logistic Apps


Here is a collection of our recent vehicle and transport-related projects:
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/gridio 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/paqtana 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/cxt-software-2
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/hubfleet
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/rova 




10. Address any “Gotcha!” questions, and add any extra info if they ask specific questions (the Cover Letter will include most information they might ask for, but add anything extra if needed).


Take time on the Personalization - it really does help increase responses and sales, and should only take a couple minutes.


11. Profile Highlights - choose the best 4 Highlights that fit the project (listed in Personalization chapter).


Default/Vague
	LeadJet, Digital Ocean, Purefy, Mobius One
	SaaS (not UI/promo specified)
	LeadJet, Digital Ocean, Myko, Purefy
	SaaS UI/Promo/Demo
	LeadJet, Myko, Qase, Leasecake
	3D Isometric 
	Digital Ocean, Contrax, Pfizer, Gridio
	App Related
	Plan Your Travel, Property DriveBy, Leasecake, Gaido
	Finance
	Base Carbon, Mobius One, Thomas Murray,  Purefy
	FinTech (Finance Software)
	Leasecake, Contrax, Purefy, LeadJet
	AI (Software/App/
Chatbot/Digital Related, unsure)
	Myko, LeadJet, Tugi, Predictive HR
	AI (RARE - where it’s clearly related to a factory, logistics, overview of big systems etc)
	Digital Ocean, TEGI, i-5O, Paqtana
	Live Footage
	Base Carbon, EGEA SRI Video 2, Whrever, Altrua Healthshare
	Vehicle+Software
	Gridio, Paqtana, Planitas, Myko
	Only Vehicle 
	Gridio, Planitas, Pfizer, STS
	Factory/Industry/Drilling 
	Pfizer, 360 Drilling, Paqtana, STS
	Transportation/
Logistics
	Pfizer, Paqtana, STS, Gridio
	2D Characters
	Purefy, Mobius One, EGEA SRI, Into23
	Inforgraphic/ Vague 2D
	EGEA SRI, Thomas Murray, Mobius One, Purefy
	Healthcare
	Klara, SNF, Eurofound 2022, Altrua HealthShare
	AI Software/Chat Bot/Digital/Agent
	Myko, Tugi Tark, GRIT, LeadJet
	Kinetic Typography
	Myko, Plan Your Travel, Plan Away, Mobius One
	Cybersecurity
	Unqork, Myko, Contrax, Apono
	Real Estate
	Property DriveBy, Leasecake, Crowda, DigiShare
	

12. Boost the Connects number based on our system. 


Perfect Fit Jobs (UI/SaaS/app/3d isometric)
	Vague/2D/Red Flags
	Fixed 
(3 min max)
	Hourly 
Rate
	Max Connects
	Fixed 
(3 min max)
	Hourly 
Rate
	Max Connects
	2K+
	$100+
	250
	2K+
	$100+
	150
	1-2K
	$65+
	150
	1-2K
	$65+
	75
	

	$50+
	75
	

	$50+
	50
	500-1K
	$40-49
	50
	500-1K
	$40-49
	SKIP
	

Hot Jobs (all applications in last hour)
250 MAX Jobs = Boost 100 Connects
150 MAX Jobs = Boost 65 Connects
75 MAX Jobs = Boost 50 Connects
50 MAX Jobs = Boost 30 Connects


Warm Jobs (3-4 in last 6 hrs)


Recently, Upwork sometimes shows jobs with no info on when bids were made. In these cases, treat it as warm. 


250 MAX Jobs = We Boost 20+ Connects more than the #1 Boost
150 MAX Jobs = Boost 10+ Connects more than the #1 Boost
75 MAX Jobs = Boost 10+ Connects more than the #1 Boost
50 MAX Jobs = Boost 5+ Connects more than the #1 Boost


Cold Jobs (3-4 applications are 12+ hrs old)
250 MAX Jobs = We Boost 5+ Connects more than the #1 Boost
150 MAX Jobs = Boost 3+ Connects more than the #1 Boost
75 MAX Jobs = Boost 1+ Connects more than the #1 Boost
50 MAX Jobs = Boost 1+ Connects more than the #1 Boost




13. Click Send for X Connects and complete application (Fixed Rate Jobs require one more Click). 
5) Tracking Your Work


During sessions, you will also track your work. This way we can track how many Connects are spent. It looks like this:


  



You will see that the average Connects spent per week in usually 700-1000. Some weeks will be more or less, but it will tend to fall into this range. 


For each job, all you need to do is update the numbers for:
* Upwork Proposals
* Connects Spent 


Everything else updates itself. 


You can track here:
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1qaB5Fn4OO_owsfI9VAbnE1s8_t64RtQwI_w7knPiTS4/edit?usp=sharing
And if you have any questions about jobs, you can take a screenshot, and write your questions here:


https://docs.google.com/document/d/12obrJGAhpL5pyqmSDoOh7DKdFmiuW_EGmUdo1d-H7dY/edit?usp=sharing