⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ TOP 1% ON UPWORK


𝗟𝗼𝗼𝗸𝗶𝗻𝗴 𝗳𝗼𝗿 𝗮 𝗖𝘂𝘁𝘁𝗶𝗻𝗴-𝗘𝗱𝗴𝗲 𝗩𝗶𝗱𝗲𝗼 𝗳𝗼𝗿 𝗬𝗼𝘂𝗿 𝗖𝘂𝘁𝘁𝗶𝗻𝗴-𝗘𝗱𝗴𝗲 𝗣𝗿𝗼𝗱𝘂𝗰𝘁?


Here’s a quick intro to make your life easier:
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/upwork 


I help my clients 𝘁𝗿𝗮𝗻𝘀𝗳𝗼𝗿𝗺 their messaging with videos that communicate their 𝗯𝗶𝗴 𝗶𝗱𝗲𝗮.


I’m Kevin Travers, Creative Director at Fifth Avenue Animate. Since 2015, I’ve worked with Google, Pfizer, Canon, and hundreds of Y Combinator startups and SaaS companies.


𝗠𝘆 𝗪𝗼𝗿𝗸


Software/App/UI
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/leadjet 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/myko 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/lucidya  


3D Isometric
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/digital-ocean 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/pfizer  
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/contrax  


Live Footage
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/base-carbon 
https://https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/abaxx 


2D Animation
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/purefy  
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/mobius-one  


𝗠𝘆 𝗖𝗹𝗶𝗲𝗻𝘁’𝘀 𝗥𝗲𝘀𝘂𝗹𝘁𝘀


"𝘔𝘢𝘯𝘢𝘨𝘦𝘮𝘦𝘯𝘵 𝘭𝘰𝘷𝘦𝘴 𝘪𝘵! 𝘐'𝘥 𝘸𝘰𝘳𝘬 𝘸𝘪𝘵𝘩 𝘒𝘦𝘷𝘪𝘯 𝘢𝘨𝘢𝘪𝘯 𝘪𝘯 𝘢 𝘩𝘦𝘢𝘳𝘵𝘣𝘦𝘢𝘵." - Declan C, Pfizer


"𝘍𝘪𝘯𝘢𝘭𝘭𝘺, 𝘢 𝘷𝘪𝘥𝘦𝘰 𝘵𝘩𝘢𝘵 𝘦𝘹𝘱𝘭𝘢𝘪𝘯𝘴 𝘸𝘩𝘢𝘵 𝘸𝘦 𝘥𝘰 𝘸𝘪𝘵𝘩𝘰𝘶𝘵 𝘮𝘢𝘬𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘶𝘴 𝘴𝘰𝘶𝘯𝘥 𝘭𝘪𝘬𝘦 𝘦𝘷𝘦𝘳𝘺 𝘰𝘵𝘩𝘦𝘳 𝘚𝘢𝘢𝘚 𝘤𝘰𝘮𝘱𝘢𝘯𝘺." - Gary H, Unqork ($𝟯𝟲𝟱 𝗺𝗶𝗹𝗹𝗶𝗼𝗻 𝗶𝗻 𝗳𝘂𝗻𝗱𝗶𝗻𝗴, 𝟯𝘅 𝘁𝗵𝗲𝗶𝗿 𝘀𝗶𝗴𝗻𝘂𝗽𝘀)


"𝘐𝘯𝘷𝘦𝘴𝘵𝘰𝘳𝘴 𝘴𝘵𝘢𝘳𝘵𝘦𝘥 𝘳𝘦𝘢𝘤𝘩𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘰𝘶𝘵 𝘵𝘰 𝘜𝘚 𝘢𝘧𝘵𝘦𝘳 𝘴𝘦𝘦𝘪𝘯𝘨 𝘰𝘶𝘳 𝘯𝘦𝘸 𝘦𝘹𝘱𝘭𝘢𝘪𝘯𝘦𝘳. 𝘎𝘢𝘮𝘦 𝘤𝘩𝘢𝘯𝘨𝘦𝘳." - Caroline T, Leap (𝗥𝗮𝗶𝘀𝗲𝗱 $𝟲𝟬 𝗺𝗶𝗹𝗹𝗶𝗼𝗻 𝗶𝗻 𝗳𝘂𝗻𝗱𝗶𝗻𝗴)


Our service is from start to finish, with each step approved by you:


𝗪𝗼𝗿𝗹𝗱𝗰𝗹𝗮𝘀𝘀 𝗦𝗰𝗿𝗶𝗽𝘁𝘄𝗿𝗶𝘁𝗶𝗻𝗴
𝗣𝗿𝗲𝗺𝗶𝘂𝗺 𝗩𝗼𝗶𝗰𝗲𝗼𝘃𝗲𝗿 𝗮𝗻𝗱 𝗠𝘂𝘀𝗶𝗰
𝗛𝗶𝗴𝗵-𝗾𝘂𝗮𝗹𝗶𝘁𝘆 𝗦𝘁𝗼𝗿𝘆𝗯𝗼𝗮𝗿𝗱𝘀 𝗮𝗻𝗱 𝗔𝗻𝗶𝗺𝗮𝘁𝗶𝗼𝗻 
𝟭-𝟰 𝗪𝗲𝗲𝗸 𝗧𝘂𝗿𝗻𝗮𝗿𝗼𝘂𝗻𝗱
𝗘𝘅𝗽𝗲𝗿𝘁 𝗖𝗼𝗺𝗺𝘂𝗻𝗶𝗰𝗮𝘁𝗶𝗼𝗻 𝗮𝗻𝗱 𝗦𝗲𝗿𝘃𝗶𝗰𝗲 


We make cutting-edge videos that stand out, and people remember. 


If you’re interested, send me a message and let’s talk!


Cheers,
Kevin Travers
fifthavenueanimate.com