Anyone can get non-quant but quant is better if they get quant emails
Cold Email Sequence - Non-Quant Trading Firms
Email 1: Initial Outreach
Subject: Start 80% of the way to full trading automation
Hi [First Name],
Our customers collectively manage $1.8B in AUM using our AI agent workforce to automate their trading strategies.
I noticed [Company] actively trades [asset class]. Most firms like yours face the same challenge: you think systematically about your strategies, but you don't have a team of developers to automate them.
That's exactly why we built 4Thought Navigator.
Instead of hiring expensive developers or waiting 12+ months for custom solutions, our AI agent workforce starts you 80% of the way there. We handle all the infrastructure—data feeds, backtesting, execution—while you focus on what makes you unique: your trading strategies.
These customers save 120+ hours monthly and capture opportunities they'd otherwise miss while sleeping.
Would you be open to a 15-minute call to see how this works?
Best, Richie Sater CEO, 4Thought Technologies
P.S. We're backed by the US National Science Foundation and our team comes from Bloomberg, JPMorgan, and Citi.
________________


Email 2: Follow-up with Social Proof (3 days later)
Subject: How [Similar Company] automated their [strategy type] strategies
Hi [First Name],
Quick follow-up on my note about trading automation.
I just wrapped up a demo with a [similar asset class] firm that was manually executing strategies around the clock. Their words: "I don't have to choose between performance and work-life balance anymore—my strategies execute perfectly even while I'm asleep."
The difference? They're now running 6 automated strategies that:
* Monitor markets 24/7 without human intervention
* Execute trades in seconds, not minutes
* Capture fleeting opportunities their manual process would miss
All without writing a single line of code.
Would Thursday at 3 PM work for a brief demo? I can show you exactly how this would work for [Company]'s [specific strategy/asset class] operations.
Best, Richie
________________


Email 3: Competition/Urgency Focus (5 days later)
Subject: While you're thinking, your competitors are building
Hi [First Name],
I get it—evaluating new technology takes time, especially when it comes to your trading operations.
But here's what's happening while you're thinking:
Your competitors are already implementing AI-driven automation. The firms that move first will have a 12-18 month head start on capturing opportunities that manual processes simply can't match.
Every major fund is asking the same question: "How do we implement AI without losing control of our strategies?"
We've solved that puzzle. Our visual programming approach gives you complete transparency—you can see exactly what the AI is thinking through flowcharts, not black boxes.
Want to see how this transparency works in practice?
Best, Richie
________________


Not part of sequence: Problem/Pain Focus (7 days later)
Subject: Missing opportunities while you sleep?
Hi [First Name],
At 2:47 AM last Tuesday, Bitcoin spiked 3.2% in 14 minutes.
If you were running systematic strategies, did you capture that move? Or did it happen while you were asleep, in a meeting, or away from your desk?
These are the kinds of things that 4Thought helps _______
This is the reality for systematic traders without automation: you're always one meeting, one vacation, one night's sleep away from missing significant opportunities.
Our AI agents never sleep. They execute your exact strategies 24/7/365.
Quick question: How many opportunities do you estimate you miss each month due to timing or availability?
Happy to show you how [Company] could capture every single one.
Best, Richie
________________


Email 5: Final Attempt with FastProof Offer (10 days later)
Subject: Should I take you off my list?
Hi [First Name],
I haven't heard back, so I'm assuming automated trading isn't a priority for [Company] right now.
Before I close your file, I wanted to make one final offer:
Our $5K FastProof: We'll build a working prototype of one of your strategies in 30 days, then give you 2 months to test it live. Total of 3 months before you decide anything.
If it doesn't deliver results, you're out nothing but time. If it does work (like it has for our other clients managing $1.8B in AUM), the $5K goes toward your license.
No long-term contracts. No massive upfront investment. Just proof.
If that sounds interesting, just reply "DEMO" and I'll send you a calendar link.
Otherwise, best of luck with your trading—I'll check back in Q2.
Richie Sater CEO, 4Thought Technologies
________________


Email Templates Notes:
* Personalize [Company], [First Name], [asset class], [strategy type] for each prospect
* Use intent signals from social media/website visits when available
* A/B test subject lines focusing on "automation" vs "AI agents" vs "24/7 trading"
* Include Loom video in Email 2 or 3 showing actual platform demo
* Track open rates, reply rates, and meeting bookings to optimize messaging






Cold Email Sequence - Quant Funds
Email 1: Technical Focus Initial Outreach
Subject: Visual programming language + AI agents for quant strategies
Hi [First Name],
Our customers collectively manage $1.8B in AUM using AI agents and visual programming for quant strategies.
I saw [Fund] actively trades [asset class] and noticed you've been [hiring quant analysts/expanding infrastructure/recent LinkedIn activity].
Our approach: AI agents work within a functional visual programming language (think Lisp + flowcharts). No black box decisions—every action is explainable and auditable.  And we integrate into whatever infrastructure you are already using.
Worth a 15-minute technical walkthrough?
Best, Richie Sater CEO, 4Thought Technologies
P.S. Our CTO Adam Faanes built backtesting infrastructure at JPMorgan. We know what enterprise-grade quant systems require.
________________


Email 2: Infrastructure Deep Dive (3 days later)
Subject: Re: How [Similar Fund] integrated their existing models
Hi [First Name],
Following up on AI + visual programming for quant infrastructure.
Just finished a demo with a market-making fund that had a specific challenge: they wanted to leverage AI for strategy automation, but needed complete transparency in decision-making for risk management.
Our solution:
* AI builds strategies using pre-defined functional blocks (no direct code generation)
* Everything compiles down to C for runtime performance
* Full audit trail of every decision through visual flowcharts
* Seamless integration with their existing data feeds and execution systems
The result: They can now deploy AI-driven strategies while maintaining the explainability their risk committee requires.
How are you currently handling the explainability challenge with AI in your strategies?
I can show you exactly how our visual programming approach solves this.
Best, Richie
________________


Email 3: Performance vs Build Decision (5 days later)
Subject: Build vs buy: The real cost calculation
Hi [First Name],
Since you haven't responded, I'm guessing you're in the classic build vs buy analysis mode.
Let me save you some math:
To build what we've already built in-house, you'd need:
* 2-3 senior developers for 12-18 months ($400K-$600K)
* Infrastructure architecture and deployment ($100K+)
* Integration with multiple data providers and execution systems
* Ongoing maintenance and updates
Total cost: $500K-$1M+ and 18 months to production.
Or you could start 80% of the way there and focus your developers on pure alpha generation.
Which approach gets you to market faster with better returns?
Best, Richie
________________


Email 4: Developer Time Focus (7 days later)
Subject: How much are you spending on infrastructure developers?
Hi [First Name],
Quick math question for you:
If a senior quant developer costs $200K+ annually, and 80% of their time goes to rebuilding infrastructure that every other fund has built (data pipelines, backtesting, model deployment), how much are you spending per year on commoditized infrastructure work?
For most funds we talk to, it's $500K-$1M+ annually.
What if your developers could focus 100% of their time on alpha-generating models instead?
That's exactly what happens when you start with our infrastructure foundation:
* Pre-built data feed integration
* Enterprise backtesting (permutation engines, any frequency)
* Visual programming language for rapid model deployment
* AI agents that understand your existing codebase
Your developers become 5x more productive because they're building strategy, not infrastructure.
How much could your fund generate with an extra $500K worth of developer focus on pure alpha research?
Best, Richie
________________


Email 5: Integration Focus (9 days later)
Subject: Hybrid approach for funds with existing infrastructure
Hi [First Name],
Most quant funds we talk to have the same concern: "We've already invested millions in our infrastructure—we can't just rip and replace everything."
You don't have to.
Here's how funds with existing infrastructure typically integrate with us:
1. API Integration: Create custom blocks that connect to your existing services (semantic analysis, risk models, execution engines)
2. Selective Deployment: Use our AI agents for specific strategy types while keeping your core systems
3. Hybrid Backtesting: Compare results between your backtester and ours for validation
Example: One fund kept their high-frequency infrastructure but uses our AI agents for swing trading strategies. Best of both worlds.
The key: You preserve your existing investment while getting AI capabilities that would take years to build in-house.
Worth exploring how this hybrid approach might work for [Fund]?
Best, Richie
________________


Email 6: Final Technical Appeal with FastProof (12 days later)
Subject: Last question about AI agent infrastructure
Hi [First Name],
I haven't heard back, so I'm assuming this isn't the right time for [Fund] to evaluate new infrastructure.
Before I close your file, let me make one final technical offer:
$5K FastProof: We'll take one of your existing infrastructure and implement it in our visual programming environment. 30-day build, then 2 months for you to test and validate.
You'll see:
* How AI agents interact with your models through functional blocks
* Integration with your current data feeds/execution systems
* Performance comparison against your current implementation
* Complete explainability through visual decision trees
If it doesn't demonstrate clear technical value, you're out nothing but time.
Otherwise, I'll follow up in Q3 when AI infrastructure might be a higher priority.
Worth a technical scoping call to see if this makes sense?
Best, Richie Sater
P.S. Happy to connect you with our market-making client for a technical reference on the actual implementation.
________________


Quant-Specific Personalization Notes:
* Reference specific technical challenges: order book data, microsecond latency, risk management
* Mention integration capabilities with existing systems
* Focus on explainability and auditability of AI decisions
* Emphasize performance benefits and infrastructure cost savings
* Include technical team credentials (JPMorgan, Bloomberg backgrounds)
* Use precise technical language and avoid marketing fluff
* Offer technical reference calls with existing clients