Here are the pricing and style options we can offer you at Fifth Avenue Animate. 


Platinum Level Animation


Our highest quality work. Cinematic with smooth, dynamic motion. Every frame is created to be a piece of art. 


3.5K USD for up to 60 seconds / 1.5K each extra minute
4 week delivery with 1-2 week Express options available. 


User Interface-Focused Animation


If you have a software or app that needs the spotlight. 


  
  



https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/leadjet 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/myko
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/lucidya 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/plan-your-travel 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/leasecake
http://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/qase 
3D Isometric 


A sleek, futuristic style, great for anything tech or SaaS-related.


  
  



https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/digital-ocean 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/pfizer
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/contrax 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/unqork
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/gridio
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/planitas 
________________


2D Animation 


Either motion graphics, or characters to focus on the human element of your product.


  
  



https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/purefy 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/nicola-wealth
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/mobius-one 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/innova-wealth
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/sim 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/eurofound-2022






________________


Gold Level Animation


An option for organizations on a budget. High-quality, streamlined animation to deliver your message in style. 


2K USD for up to 60 seconds /1K each extra minute
4 week delivery, with 2 week Express options available. 


User Interface-Focused Animation


  
  



https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/gaido 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/fiter 
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/koji
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/seen
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/klara




________________


2D Animation 


  
  



https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/into23
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/mortgage-market
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/snf
https://vimeo.com/fifthavenueanimate/accents


















________________


Our Services


Our services are end-to-end, with each step approved by you:


* Professional writers to cut to the heart of your story
* Premium voiceover talent, recorded in studio (no wacky AI bots)
* High-quality, royalty-free music
* Full style frames and storyboards
* Up to 3 rounds of revisions, to get your video 100%


Your video is your first impression. 


At Fifth Avenue Animate, we strive to make yours a masterpiece. 


Let’s discuss your project today!


Cheers,


Kevin Travers
Creative Director
fifthavenueanimate.com


⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ "High quality, I'd work with Kevin again in a heartbeat." Declan Casey, Pfizer