Hi Amy,
Thank you for coordinating today's demo with your colleagues at KPMG.  Adam, Colin, and I appreciate everyone taking the time to provide such direct and valuable feedback.
The key takeaway from today's discussion is clear:  While our capabilities may be proven for certain applications, we need to demonstrate the ability of 4Thought's platform to solve a pressing tax or audit problem that a KPMG client has and will pay to resolve. 
Tom's discussion of the problem that one of his clients has automating US GAAP to local GAAP conversions across multiple SAP instances is particularly relevant here. This is precisely the type of complex, high-volume transformation where 4Thought can deliver significant value compared to traditional solutions like Alteryx or SAP's PAPM module.  
To move forward, I accordingly propose that we develop a proof of concept for the above client use case that Tom described using 4Thought’s “FastProof” process.  The FastProof is our cost-effective way for select customers to test out our platform.  For our AI automation infrastructure requires that 4Thought first Blueprint and Automate the specific functionality that a customer needs so they can Run that use case on their own.
The proposed FastProof process would here entail that 4Thought deliver a functional tax automation sandbox environment with KPMG's support through (i) guidance related to your client’s use case and (ii) a modest development budget.  This POC would enable Tom's team to test 4Thought’s functionality and give the client a hands-on demonstration that shows how 4Thought can solve the problem at a fraction of the cost of SAP's PAPM module.
With KPMG providing the tax expertise and requisite data, 4Thought can quickly build a POC that truly resonates with tax practitioners and positions KPMG not only to win and retain this significant opportunity.  That said, would you be open to discussing a modest FastProof engagement to develop this tax-specific POC?  
I look forward to your response and hopefully moving forward here together.
Best,
- Richie