SLOW AND BREATHE
 Hi [Name], thanks for jumping on.  So how do you know {Connection}
My name is Richie Sater, I'm the CEO of 4Thought Technologies. I was one of this year's nominees for EY Entrepreneur of the Year, and I'm also a Principal Investigator for the National Science Foundation.
But before all that, I was a little hacker kid.  I was a CPA and a software developer which is a VERY weird venn diagram to be in the middle of.  Long story how I got there but a partner at EY found out about me and they took me on to this task force they called TTT at EY which were a bunch of CPA Developers.  And I at 23 got to work on major transformation projects with clients like BlackRock, BlackStone, Goldman, I worked directly with Brian Armstrong at Coinbase, I worked with the Winklevoss twins if you saw the facebook movie.  I had some really great exposure to business and building and customer funded development.  Eventually that led to me wanting to build something.   
So I left EY in 2021 to start 4Thought, which has had significant success.
We've been funded by both Venture Capital and the US National Science Foundation. For three years we used grants and funding to build our core technology and infrastructure - what you're going to see today.
In January 2024 we launched our front office product on top of this infrastructure. It's what 18 months later and that front office product now has over 1.8 Billion dollars in Customer AUM.  We're also in talks to partner with KPMG on some back-office use cases.
The way I normally run these pitch calls is to try to make it like hanging out around the whiteboard doing show and tell.  I usually pull up the tech so you can see it, I have slides but I jump around a lot I try to make it as interactive and question answer based as possible if that works for you.